Page-1
ANALYSIS

OF

CHINESE CHARACTERS

G. D. WILDER anp J. H. INGRAM

Norru Cuixa Usion Lanxcuvace Scmoon
1922
Page-2
INTRODUCTION

0
ANALYSIS OF CHINESE CHARACTERS,

The author of the great Chinese English dictionary Mr, Giles, has
not hesitated to express most trenchantly his contempt of etymology as it
has been applied to Chinese Characters, He says that * Much of the
etymology of the Shuo Wen is childish in the extreme”, and that the
phonetic principle of combination is the only one of which we can pretend
to know anything. Notwithstanding the ridicule heaped upon it, scholars,
like Chalmers, Chalfant, Wieger and others have continued to pursue the
fascinating study of the origin of these symbols and have given us most
interesting results. These resultsare so convincing that in the teaching of
character writing we have unhesitatingly adopted the principle that the
etymology of the earliest Chinese writers on the subject, childish though
it may often be and fanciful, is yet superior to the numerous mnemonics
that have been inveuted by foreign students to assist in the difficult task
of memorizing the forms of a few thousand characters. The student
of these pages may often consider the etymology suggested fanciful
and the logic of the combinations far fetched but the following consid-
eration should be borne in mind. They are the products of Chinese
fancy and imagination -and to some extent show the workings of the
Chinese mind. Therefore they interest us who are students of Chinese
thought. Moreover they often may only seem to be fanciful because we
are ignorant of the ancient customs out of which they ardse, or of the
forms of the utensils of which they are pictures, or of the variations of pro-
nunciation in the different dialects. If any one of us were entrusted with
the task of inventing written symbols for both concrete objects and abstract
ideas it is doubtful if we would produce anything much less fanciful and
we certainly could produce nothing of such rich historic interest, as cer-
tainly invests the 3000 most primitive characters,

(_ Writing Chinese characters is a task of memory. | Modern pedagogy
insists on the value of logical or even fanciful links between ideas for fixing
them in mind, Those who try to learn Chinese characters almost in-
Page-3
iv INTRODUCTION

variably grops for some association of ideas, some logic in the formation
by which to hold them in memory. We have no doubt that the groupings
which have been artived at already by a study of the ancient inscriptions of
the early seal writings and etymologies are more interesting, more logical,
and wider in- range than any memory system that has been or can be
invented by‘ the superficial study of the characters as written with the
modern Chinese pen. These etymological studies enlist the interest of the
‘historic imagination to aid the dry-as-dust task of committing to memory
these curious symbols of the thought of three or four milleniums,
Missionaries in China have been spared the task which their brethren
in many places have had, of reducing the language of the people to writ-
ing: The genealogy of Chinese characters takes us back nearly 4000
years, For an interesting historical sketch the student is referred to
Wieger’s introduction, of which we here give a summary, Tradition con-
firmed by well grounded induction ascribes the idea of writing to the
mythical Emperor Fu® Hsi' 4k3§ and the systemization of written charac-
~ters to Ts'ang' Chich* £# in the 27th century B.C, Emperor Huang® Tit
%, B.C. 2607-2598, had recorders trained in official schools under a 2
3t #'ar’ skif® or Grand Master. Bronzes of the 18th century B.C. with char-
acters on them are extant. The stone drums exhibited in the gateway of
the Confucian Temple in Peking, referred by some to the 12th century, by
others to the gth century B.C. show inscriptions in the style used by an
imperial recorder $§ Chou® in a catalog of characters called the $§3 Chon'
wen’ or large seal, K2 ta* chuan'. Later they became known as tadpole
characters, (B.C. 200) Wil #0' fou’ tzu', because so many of the
penstrokes suggest the form of atadpole. Confucius, B.C. 500, complained,
of scribes who were dishonest and instead of leaving blanks when they.
forgot characters, made new ones. These he called %4 c/'s® #z4* or odd
characters. Ch'in® Shih® Huang® 64551, 213 B.C. had his prime minister
Li® Ssu® Z=ff make a new catalog called the = £ san' #s’ang.! It contained
3300 characters which are known as the small seal JNGE /siao® chuan',
L Ssu'invented no new symbols but combined the primitive picture
characters with phonetics. us the creation of new characters ceased
before 200 B.C. and probably long before that, as the phonetic principle,
which renders unnecessary the invention of new symbolic elements, was in
usein 800 B.C. Li* Ssu' was deceived by the “ odd characters " and as he
had not enough ancient documents to ascertain the meaning of many
Page-4
INTRODUCTION o v

symbols he fixed wrongly the meaning of many characters. We can now
cotrect some of his mistakes. In the period of literary enthusiasm following
Li* Ssu' many new characters were invented by the easy process of
phonetic combination. As there wete many l'terary centers with different
dialects prevailing and no standard or center of control, coyntless useless
and dugllcau ciara.cters were formed, Li® Ssus cacalo;w)\m@d
seven times until it contained 7380 at the time of Christ and two hundred
years later over ten thousand. The modern standard dictionary of Kang
Hsi finished A.D. 1717 has 40,000 characters. Of these 34,000 are
monstrosities and useless doubles ; 2000 more are surnames and doubles of
little use, leaving 4000 that are in common use.\ Of these 3000 are all
that need be studied for etymological purposes, although there are also
some rare or obsolete characters that are of etymological and historical
interest. § Fortunately the 3000 ancient primitives are still the most useful
characters and anyone who gets a mastery of them and their combinations
will have a magnificent vocabulary for all departments of literature.| Let
no one be appalled by the popular misstatement that there are 80,000
characters or even by the fact that there are 40,000 in the dictiohary. The
vocabularies of Goodrich and Soothill haye but 10,000 and the larger
Chinese English dictionaries but 14,000.{ One who masters /zqoo will find
himself fairly well equipped for public speech. Dr. Goodrich after his many
decades of experience is surpriscd that he can catalog but 4000 colloquial
characters.,

~~ Besides the multiplication of characters there have been many trans-~

| formations for ease in writing or condensations for the sake of speed. Many

| of these changes occurred as writing materials changed. Dt first the metal
stylus, writing on wood made uniform strokes equally easy in all directions.—
Curves and circles were common. Then the wooden pencil used on silk
caused poor writing and some peculiar changes. Finally fine pointed
hair brushes used on paper gave great power of shading and speed in exe-
cution but still further distorts the shapes of the classic small s=al characters.
The brush has produced the modern ¥%42 #'a® Zz1', in which curves-/
are reduced to straight linesand angles, and the grass characters, 2%t |
19ac® tzu’, or running hand which sl further obliterates the classit
_forms.

Other transformations are due to abbreviation for securiny mor¢

space for inscriptions on small pieces of bone, shell or metal, as Mr. J.
Page-5
vi INTRODUCTION

Mellen Menzies has pointed out, and these abbreviations have become
precedents for permanent forms, —

About 120 A.D. there was printed a posthumous work of Hsii® Shen
(B.C. 86). It was the first publication of genuine archaeological and ety-
mological studies. This father of Chinese archzology had travelled
extesively and studied Li* Ssu's catalog. His great work is the 3RS
Shuo® Wen? Chieh® Tzu®, It contains 10516 standard characters arranged
under 534 to 544 primitive symbols which are the origin of our 214
radicals, ~All Chinese dictionaries claim to be based upon the Shuo Wen,
though they often show ignorance of it and few scholars to-day are ac-
quainted with it. Our Character Analysis is based upon Wieger's Ety-
mological Lessons which is drawn largely from the Shuo Wen. Our
references usually mzan that our explanation is taken from Wieger. But
it is not always so, for the original Shuo Wen as well as the works of
Chalfant, Chalmers and others have been used. Original or at least modern
suggestions have besn made and usually placed after the reference to
Wieger. In Wieger’s Lessons will often be found the quotation trom the
Shuo Wen in Chinese justifying the explanation.

" We shall use a few technical expressions which are best explained by
| theancient classification of characters into six_categories. All characters
are divided info the 3¢ wen® or simple figures and the 2 #zu* or com-
pound.  On the basis of form or composition these two classes are each
| divided into two other classss. 1. The wen® or simpLE_characters may
be eithzr (1) pictures {§ ksiang" or imitative symbols, {f 1 ksiang® hsing®,
of which there are 364 in the Shuo Wen; or they may be (2) indicative
symbols $55i ckik* shili, pointing to things, affaivs. The Shuo Wen has
125 of these. 2. The compoUND characters % are divided into (1) logical
combinations, € & /s #, in which each component part of the character
has a meaning relevant to the meaning of the character as a whole. There
are 1167 of thess in the Shuo Wen: (2) phonetic combinations J1%
hsing® sheng' (form and sound), also called F¥BE /Asiel® sheng', in which
one part has a significant meaning and the rest points out the pronuncia-
tion only, Of these the Shuo Wen explains 7697. We should note how-
ever that in many of these phonetic combinations the phonetic part was
chosen because its meaning had some suggestion of the meaning of the
character so that they incline towards the logical combination class and
may be called suggestive phonetics. e.g. [i] wes' to ask has P men* door
Page-6
INTRODUCTION vil

for the phonetic and [1 #0u4* mouth to signify the meaning of ask, but a
mouth in a doorway certainly suggests asking. So too in [f wen’ to
hear, an ear at a crack in the door, the phonetic [ is suggestive.

‘We give the following examples of the four classes mentioned above,—

1. Imitative symbols or pictures such as Y !, right hand; ¥
left haud ; [ men®, door, of the Chinese two leaved style with projecting
pins at top and bottom for hinges.

2. Indicative symbols, that suggest meaning often with the idea of
motion as, | Zwn® representing suspension from above or action of force
or authority from above downwards; H fax', the sun H just above the
horizon —, suggesting the meaning of morning.

3. Logical combination, in which the meaning of the character re-
sults from the meaning of all the elements. {j ckan' is a mouth [ £'o?,
meaning to ask, undera | g, a diviner or the lines on a tortoise shell,
so the whole character means to consult the diviner or simply to divine,
iic. to ask the tortoise shell lines. .

4. Phonetic compounds, in which one part has to do with the mean-
ing and the other with the sound only. {§ c/an' to moisten, naturally has
the water radical 7K skuz® to suggest moisture and has the |5 ckan' for the
phonetic, to indicate the sound. In many cases the phonetic has little like-
ness in sound to that of the character of which it formsa part. Such discré_
pancies will be understood if one remembers that the Chinese custom
requires that only the latter part of the sound of the phonetic shall be like
that of the character whose sound it indicates. Thus i skang*is, con-
sidered a perfect phonetic for i #ang®, and §& 'ung® for & chung', fy
pan' for # p'an® etc. Moreover many of the phonetic combinations
were invented in parts of the country where the dialect varies greatly from
that familiar to the student,

These four classes are based on the form or composition of the char-
acters. The Shuo Wen distinguishes two more classes of characters
based upon use.

5. Ml chuan’ chu',is an acceptation of a character in a meaning
more extended, or derived, generalized, metaphorical, analogous, adapted,
figurative, or even inverted and opposite to the original meaning. For
jostance in b g% the original meaning seenis to be a horizontal and a per-
pendicular line from the lines appearing in a heated tortoise shell, that is,
what the diviner consults ; then by extension it meant the diviner or one
Page-7
viii INTRODUCTION

who consults the lines. Y] wang® is a picture of a fishing net. By ex-
tension of the primitive meaning it means any network, cobweb or reticu-
late design.; also to catch with a net, to catch in general, to envelope or
wrap, to gather. These meanings ate gotten by turnings i of interpreta-
tion, Primitives are usually pictures of concrete objects. ~Abstract ter ns
are usually extensions of meaning or turns of thought from the original
concrete characters. 40K fu'is a hand holding a stick of authority,
therefore, father, by a metaphorical extension.

6. [Ef§ chia® chieh* or false borrowing, refers to the use of a
character in a senss which is not its own originally, either by (1) error,
substituting it for another existing character or (2) by convention to de-
signate an object which has a name in the spoken language but which has
no written name, e.g. to take the character for some obsolete utensil arbi-
trarily to stand for some new idea for which a symbol is wanted. See No.
4. 4% yek’. As an example of the former we have in the first chapter of
the Analects 3 now pronounced in other places skxo' meaning to speak,
but in this place always pronounced yiiel!, meaning to rejoice. Viieh to
rejoice is written {5, but a scribe once wrote 5 for % by mistake, and it
was not corrected out of respect for the classical text. Bf &', to sing,
was taken by convention to mean elder brothers.

Another interesting method of forming characters was by inverting
an old character to make a new one of opposite meaning. For example
°F /sia* below is the inversion of | ‘skang' above ; Z #4*, an inversion
of F zzu’, son, means an unnatural child; ¥ #2to go on, is only, Ik
chil® to stop, turned bottom up ; & pu* walking is a combination of the
two preceding containing both stopping and going owing to the advancing
and stopping alternately of the feet in walking. A jen® inverted is |
hua', to change. ~ .

Some characters are formed by doubling and trebling other characters
either to emphasize the meaning, as J, yao' the finest thread, 2k y#' an
almost invisible filament, or to express simple reduplication or multiplica-

" tion as EJ #'ox’ mouth and BA Asiian clamor of many voices ; A 7' tree
and #fdin® forest, F sen many trees, green, many.

This book explains a thousand characters, After the student has
studied these he will have learned about 1400 useful characters. We re-
commend that he proceed then to read Wieger’s Etymological lessons
in order, and to learn to write all the list of “ 340-Characters selected
Page-8
INTRODUCTION ©

from those Lessons which do not occur in the First list.” Then a study of
Wieger’s Phonetic series, learning to write the “ second thousand selected
characters” will place all the student has learned in phonetic groups
enabling him to remember them much more easily. The study of the
phonetic groups in Soothill’s pocket dictionary or in Wieger throughout
the course will rapidly increase the numbers ot characters the student can
write,
Page-9
SUGGESTIONS TO THE BEGINNER
FOR WRITING CHARACTERS.

If the student begins with the first character and studies them in
order he very soon comes to very complicated symbols. It will
ease his task if he takes one or two lessons on simpler forms such as
the numerals and simple characters occurring early in the book as
designated below, in the suggested first lesson.

It will be found a pleasing diversion to practice under the
guidance of a teacher with a Chinese pen and the red copy forms
that schoolboys use. In this way one will at the same time learn the
order ot the strokes which thie Chinese follow. It is highly important
to learn this order if one wishes to write at all, as a regular habit form-
ed by the hand in making the strokes of each character is a great
assistance to the memory. The Language School also has a table
giving the order of strokes for the first 150 of the characters in this
book. From this the student can easily acquire the principles of
order in writing. Mr. Baller's suggestions in the Introduction to his
Mandarin Primer will also give the same. P, xxv.

In writing with either pzn or pencil, the following rules should
be observed in order to secure as much of proportion and style as
possible. 1. Each character should occupy .as nearly as possible a.
square space of equal size with those above and below, no matter
how many strokes it may contain, 2. The elemental strokes are as
follows — | v # \' 7] LL. 4 ]. 3 Where space is en-
closed the perpendiculars slope inwards, making the space broader
at the top than at the bottom. 4. Perpendiculars in the middle of.
the character should be absolutely upright, but the horizontals tend
to slope upwards toward the reader’s right hand.

We suggest the following for the
FIRST LESSON.
— 7' One, represents the primordial unity. The first

in the series of numerals, it represents the source of
all beings. It is the first radical.

In composition to make up another character it
has the following symbolic meanings.
Page-10
SUGGESTIONS TO THE BEGINNER FOR WRITING CHARACTERS. Xi

1. —i" at the top of any character usually means
heaven, a roof or any cover as in K #ien, heaven, ff§
i rain,

2. At the bottom it means the surface of the
earth, a base, or foundation. Zt pen’ trunk of a tree
or base; B fan', morning, the sun just above the
horizon. 31 & /' to stand, is a2 man k on the
ground,—.

3. A barrier or hindrance as in G ck'iao, a
difficult breathing, ' representing the breath. [%
shuan' a bolt to a door. 4. Something contained, as
4] shao® a spoon with something in it.

erlt Two. The number of the earth, because it
makes a pair with heaven. It signifies the masculine
and feminine principles [ yang® and [& yin'. Itis
the 7th radical. In composition it has three uses. 1.
The meaning of two as in {= jex’, two men, love each
other. 2. Two extremes as in 7, wx' five 3 %o*a
sheepskin Y stretched on a frame —. 3. Anold
form of | shang' above, or of T /sia' below.
e.g. 7 skil', a revelation from above. 3§ yian®,
head, that which is the top . on man JL.

san* Three, the order of humanity coming after
heaven and earth. The Chinese commonly explain 7
wang® king, as the one who unites heaven, earth and
man.

,_I.. shil®, Ten. The number that includes all the rest
of the simple numbers, a symbol of separation, extent
in two dimensions, and the cardinal points of the
compass. It is the 24th radical. e.g. X m" isa -
separating the kernels of grain >{. It means threshed
out grain or any such substance,

For the rest of the numerals study the following numbers in the
book, 29 to 33, inclusive, 58, 59. For more easy characters first
study No. 57, 1, 5, 6, 14, I5, 35, 27, 19, 12, 2, 3, 4, after mastering
these one may as well begin with No. 7 and go on in the order
given in the book.

[

Jif
Page-11
ANALYSIS OF CHINESE CHARACTERS, FROM BALLER’'S

MANDARIN PRIMER.

 

BASED MAINLY ON DR. L. WIEGER'S ETYMOLOGICAL

LESSONS AND THE SHUO WEN.

 

(W. with & sumber nod letter refers to these lessuns. A comma after the Romaniation i the first
columu mesos that it i3 a colioquini character. The form given ut the right is

"R

the seal writlog of 100 A.D.)

 

BALLER, LESSON I.

tzu', To have children F tzu® under one’s roof

s mien’. Logicalicomposition, to shelter,
to nurse, to bear. By extension it refers
to the characters produced or born hy
combining the simple X wer?, into com~
pound characters, %, either by logical
composition § & orjphonetic combination,
7 B (See introduction, Page 6, in Wieger ;
also W. 94 A.)

%, \gl tzu®, The radical.of the character, a picture o. a.

newhorn child swathed so that its legs
are not visible. In an ancient form it has
the hair. By extension it means disciple,
then sage or teacher because the emperors
honored the sages by calling them tzu® or
sons. Itis the 39th radical, relating to
children. (W.94A.)

e n mien® Picture of a roof, a shelter, a house. It

is the 40th radical of characters relating to
dwellings. (W.36 A.) Called ¥ ¥ pao’

kai,
Page-12
2 .
2 ﬁ ﬁ wo', I, me. Two spears, % ko', pointing to-
’ '# wards cach other, two rights opposing
cach other, and by extension my right,
me. (W.71Q.) =X is the radical.
Williams says it is a hand 3 grasping 2
spear, defending my rights, therefore I.
jE',, ﬁ ko', Picture of a spear with a hook or crescent
on top, a crosspiece below and a sword
knot at the handle; the 62nd radical, of
characters relating to spears and wea-
pons generally. (W. 71 F.)

) ﬁ: ni*, You. A jen’, mau (picture) 9th radical, is
the radical of ui’.
;Rﬂt erl® you, is a contraction of B the classic
;’k character for you. It is final expletive
R equivalent to a full stop, or “ Therenow ! ”
(At the end of a phrase the voice is
drawn in A ju', and the reserve of breath
1 is separated, A pa', sent forth. The
character is borrowed for you.) (W.18
0O, and 35 1..)

4

ﬂh t'a’, He, the other, she,it. A jen®, man is the
radical,combined with yel’, also; therefore
the other man, he. (Man A also 4#.)
{Eaf wvel®, This.character is a picture of an anctent
utensil, cither a funnel or a’ drinking
vessel; borrowed for.the conjunction, also.

(W. 107 B.)

) m mer?, Sign of plural in pronouns and other
words indicating persons. The radical is
A, called 3¢ A 5& or standing man when
written 4 at the left of u character.
Page-13
*f)

k-

H

3

PﬂFq merr’, gate, radical 169, is a picture of a two-
Fi leaved gate turning on pivots (hu' F being
a one-leaved door). (W.129C.) This may
have been taken to form the sign of the
plural because it is a door with two leaves.

tit* Target, mark; clear, trie. Adjectival

particle, sign of possessive.

Ee pari®, white, is the radical, No. 106. The
sun just appearing and making white
daylight, cf. 8 X pai ties. (W.
88 A.) Chalmers says it is the white
cocoon.

’:J,_P shao®, A ladle, a spoon. /Jis a primitive pie—
ture of a kind of spoomn, and the — indicates
position for arrow. (W. 54 H.)

pP; Pen, (made of hair with bamboo handle)
¥, ,IMI chu’, bamboo is the radical, No. 118. The
seal writing represents the drooping whorl
of leaves, M the inverse of W ch'e', a
sprouting plant. When written ahove
another character in composition it is 4,
called #r # M. (W.77 B.)
$$ vi* A stylus, = a = hand holding a | pen
writing — lines on a — tablet.

chil®, Paper. From # ssu',silk, the radical, and

I shik’, a flat floating plant, the phonetic.

;"f:, % ssu', Silk, a strong thread. The upper part
represents two cocoons, % yao' ; the lower

part, /b is a primitive representing the

twisting of several threads.into a big one,

—the threads from two or more cocoons

twisted. It is the 120th radical of char-
Page-14
acters relating to textile matters. (W
92 A.)

E, & shik', A surname. A family, clan, sect. Used

‘EE

in married women’s surnames. Originally
a floating plant, that ramifies and
branches and finally fixes itself by a root
to the bottom and develops greatly.
Therefore by extension, development, mul-
tiplication ; a wandering horde of primi-
tive times, a clan, family. It is the 83rd
radical, here used as a pure phonetic.
(W.114 A)

Silk was used for writing on before
paper was invented ; hence the radical
%. The plant spreads out flat on the
water ; hence the fitness of this element f
to form the character for paper.

shu', To write, a writing, a book.

B g yiieh' to speak, is the radical, No. 78. The

8

mouth O ko1’ exhaling a breath —or a
word ; therefore by extension, emana-
tion, exhalation. A more ancient form
exhibits the breath as forming a cloud
over the mouth (W. 73 A.)

F yu' A stylus (see No. 7).

10 »

|

e

While yiieh is given as the radical by
Kang Hsi, yet the seal form shows that
historically it is but a contraction for
% che®, phrase speech, document. (See
No. 270. W. 159 B.) A book # is the
emanation or speech H of a pen 3t

che®, This, here, now, This i§ word & goes 2.
Page-15
5
e T, E cho* is the radical, No. 162, to run and, to stop ;

_lh‘ lH from F ch'é', to step with the left foot,
! and 1k chil?, to stop, which is a represen-
tation of a foot standing, hecl at the left,
toes at the right, and ankle above. (W-.
112 A and ‘E.) In combination & writ—
ten i, is called % Z R.
= g yen®, Words. The O k'ou’, mouth with words
= jssuing from,/it. 149th radical (W,
73 C))

tone.
& 8 i Acity. The radical, No. 163, in combina-
tion written § and always at the right.
The O seat of & chieh® authority. The O
represents the walled town, and the & is
a seal or stamp 6f authority. (W.74 C.)
£ The # is a modification of # by the
scribes.  Tite wholé character 3f was the
name of a city west of quchuati, whose
inhabitents wore furs . It also means

weak, and was borrowed for the meapihg
there, that. (W.116 B.)

1 ;‘ﬂs‘ ﬁ% na*, Where? in third tone; there, in fourth
R

12 B3 % shik*, Right, exact, to be, yes.
. H Jjiht, the sun,is the radical, No.72,—a picture.
:IE cheng’, from — 7, one, limit and 1t chil® to
stop. Stoppingonly at the proper limit set
beforehand, upright, correct. (W. 112 L)
The sun H exactly iE on the meridian,
right, straight=4=.

13
ﬁ ch'ien’, Money.
Page-16
3% ":"E chin', metal, is the radical, No. 167. 4 chirt,

“now, present,” is phonetic. (See No-
18.) & ¢'u’, carth, bearing in its bosom
two nuggets 7\ of gold or metal. Inearth
-t there are present 4 two nuggets  of
gold 4.

, carth, is the 32ud radical. The earth

-k that produces all things, The top line
represents the surface, the lower line the
rock or subseil, and | the upright, the
things that it produces. (W. 81 A and 14
K. T)

é % chier! To exterminate, to destroy. The com-

14 ﬂ, 7?5

mon work of two or many spears X. (W.
71 R.) Most of the characters of which
this forms a part have the sense of small,
mean or to ruin, as #§ chien* cheap, §&
chien* trample, 3 ch'ien® shallow.

wai*, Outside, foreign.
hsi* Evening. The radical, No. 36 ; represents

the half moon which appears in the even-
ing. Oneline is left out of A yueh, the
moon.

f‘ pi, A soothsayer, to divine. The 25th radi-

15 ﬂig

cal. (W.56 A and F.) The divination
is by looking at the veins appearing in a
heated tortoise shell, and the + pu® repre-
sents a perpendicular and horizontal vein.
St outside, is a diviner, I in the evening
4 i. e., a person must consult the diviner
outside of working hours, before a new day.

sheng', Grow, beget, produce. Radical No.

100.
Page-17
3

56w hsi,

B

€03
n

T

A plant that grows more and more. A
whorl was added to ¥ Z. (W.79 B, F.)
Others make it a combination of % 'u*
(carth) and W ch’et (grass). That is, the
carth - produces 4 grass W.

vao', (Loins, waist), to want, to wish.

Originally written as a picture of & wo-
man, with face ®, two hands E, and
figure with enlarged bust &. It was
taken for waist, that part being more
marked in woman’s figure than in man’s;
but in this sense it is now written
with the H & jou* radical added J£. The
primitive meaning is now lost; and the
character is borrowed for the meaning to
want. (W. 50 M.)

West (radical No. 146) was taken arbi-
trarily by Kang Hsi as the radical for
classification of the character in his
dictionary. (See No. 26.)

ﬁ, ﬂ ﬁ nii’, woman, is a picture character. The 38th

!7{&

(7
¢

radical. Originally a woman standing
in respectful attitude, altered to & for
easc in writing! “'What China wants—
the Western woman” is a convenient
mnemonic for .

sot, To make, to act as.

/f .Ajent‘ is the radical, No. 9.
ﬁ ku', Cause, purpose, old.. Combined with A

man, we have man as causc, that is,
doing, making.

-[{_; ki, Ancient, that is, what has passed through

ten + shih®, mouths or generations, [l
Page-18
Kow?, (picture of a mouth, 30th radi-
cal) (W. 24 F.)

%, A&, & P To tap, rap. 66th radical. From a X

8 A

N

ya* (hand, 29th radical) holding a P
pof diviner’s rod.

nien, To read, to chant. 7To think, to study.

‘l:‘, hsin', Heart, a picture in the seal writing.

)

» g

61st radical. It shows the pericardium
opened, the lobes and the aoita below.
(W.107 A.) In combination at the left
it is written f.

A chin', now, is made up of a triangle &, chi

meatiing union, and 7 ch#, an abbrevia-
tion of % meaning contact, up to, (W. 19 .
D.) (a hand X holding a man A). The
combination is thus tautological. (W. 14
K.) The idea of the character may be
that all'past time unites in the present.
Therefore 4 to read or think, is to make
present 4 to the mind 5.

pu', Not, a negative. Primitively a bird &

flying up to the sky—‘“not able to get
there” for a mnemonic. The radical, —
is often used as a limit, or the sky, at the
top of a character. (W. 1B and 133 A))

hsieh, A Tittle, some. Sign of comparative,

several.

tzu®, This, here. Originally it meant to

turn & on one’s heel k. “This” is a
borrowed meaning: K pi* is an in-
verted man A, to turn. (W. 26 A
112 4))
Page-19
9

" erh!, Two. The number of the earth because
it is paired with heaven. Also the number
of the two principles [& yin' and B yang?,
(W. 2 A.) The radical of ¥, the 7th.
The combination of Ji ¢z, this, and =
erh', two, means pointing to this and that,
sign of plurality.

21
%E shui’, Who? who; any one. § yen® is the -
radical, the 149th.
ﬁ, & % chui* Short-tailed birds (a picture), the 172nd
radical. (W. 168 A.) A phonetic combi—
nation.

= o
tung’, To understand. The radical is i, here
written I and called & shu % hsin', ver—
tical heart, the 61st radical.
i tung® To lead or influence, to rule or lead peo-
ple on to right ways.
With 25 heart meaning to influence the
mind, or to understand.
H t'sac®, grass, a picture, the 140th radical, is
its radical: TItis written ¥ when stand-
§ ing alorte, and + in composition.

. E chung', Heavy, important. Composed by
superimposing t'ing* £ upon ¥ tung’,
the two oblique strokes of the latter being
reduced to a horizontal stroke.

i’ i ting’ is a man A standing at his place
on the earth ., the earth denoting the
business of life, position. The positions
on the east of the throne were the more
important and honorable, hence the com~
bination with ¥ tung!, east, to mean
important or heavy. (W.81D.)
Page-20
10

33 tung', The sun A shining through the trees,
A mutie., on the horizon where it appears
in the morning, so, east. (W. 120 K.)
*, * mu', Tree, a picture of trunk, roots and
branches, the 75th radical. (W.119A.)

23
E . % shen®, Very, superlative, what? Before F&
read sher®.

"ﬂ‘, E’ kan', sweet, the 99th radical is the radical,
from O K’ou®, mouth, and something held
in it,—i.e., agreeable to the taste, sweet,
satisfaction. (W.73B.)

PT_:E P'F’, To pair, a pair. It is a half of the whole
which is represented by M ssu'. A little,
more than half of the character is retained
so as to be recognizable. (W. 42 A.)
Therefore 3 means affection for the mate.
As this is the strongest affection, the char-
acter comes to mean superlative, very.

24
& ma', mo', An interrogative particle, a sort;
also used ironically. These are borrowed

meanings. The primitive meaning is small,.

delicate, from B ma® hemp fibre, and %
yao!, the finest thread. (W.90A.) ,
ﬁ’iﬁ ma®, Hemp, hemp fibre, pockinarked ; the
200th radical; it is the radical of this
character.. It is made up of the follow-
ing: .

)‘K p'an* To strlp hemp,; from A pa', to divide
(12th radical) the fibres from the ¥ ch'e’,
stalk. (Distinguish from & mn') When
doubled it forms Bk p’'af, textile fibres.
When the stalks are soaked and stripped
off and brought under cover or stored in
Page-21
n

a shed I~ yer®, it is called fik ma®, prepar-
ed hemp or tow, kept under shelter. (W.
79 H.) In combination this character
has the idea of entanglement, troublesome.

2., 8 ¥ao' The finest thread as obtained from wind-
ing the filaments of only two cocoons
which are represented in the character.
‘By extension, any fine thread, tow, slender,
tgnder, 52nd radical. (W. 90 A.)

25
Ei, § tung', East. Sun H shining through the trees,
A mu'. SeeNo.22. K mu'is the radical,
the 75th.

bird settling on its nest. The birds go to
roost at sunset; hence the use of the char-
acter for west ; the 146th R. (W.41 D.)

9 5Ey ﬁ hsien', First. The radical is JL jen?, a man.
It sometimes means feet, support. The
10th radical. (W. 29 A.)
ﬂ;Z&E chih' A small plant ¥ issuing from the ground
—; to grow; development, continuity, pro-
gress. It is borrowed as the sign of the
possessive. (W.79B.) Accordingly the
combination 4t hsien! means to advance 4
on one’s feet Ji, to be first.

26 .
Eﬁ, % hsi', West. The primitive writings picture a

ko*, The culm of the bamboo, a joint of bamboo

with a knot and a whorl of leaves, in the

primitive writing. An article, a classifier.

, fh (W.77 A) In the common form A jen®
is the radical, combined with the phonetic

@ kuf, shut up, to make firm, fortified;

vEBER
Page-22
12

* g, 9p

Mi,x

31 ;.-\‘.9'?

"B

qo'mposéd of [0 wef®, an enclosure, (the
3l1stradical) and & ku’, ancient (see No.
17) as phonetic. Only when written with
the 4§ chif, as radical has it the meaning
ot ‘bamboo.

BALLER, LESSON II.

ssu', Four. An even number casily divided
into halves by the A pa’, to divide; all
around. The radicalis 3 wes?, No. 31,
used in words relating to enclosures. (W.
42 A.) The old form represents the divi~
sion into halves. For /A see under No. 32.

wid, Five. At first written X being four lines
and a center, or five ; then placed between
= heaven and earth, 25 the ‘dual powers
& yin' and B yang®, begetting the five
elements, FL47 wu’. hsing®. (W. 39 A.).
The radical is =, the 7th.

lin*, Six. The even number that comes after
four marked with a dot. Note thatall’
the even digits are written so as to show
their divisibility, = erh%, two, and A
pa', eight. (W. 42 A.) The radical
is A, 12th.

ch'f", Seven lines, in old writing. All the
digits are found written in this style in
old inscriptions, i.e., with the number of
lines indicated by ‘the digit. (W. 33 A.).
Radical is — 7.
Page-23
13.

/'\ rﬁ pa', Eight ; to divide. The meaning is indi-
’ cated by the form. Also written with
eight lines in the angular form. The 12th

radical. (W, 18 A.)

33
jL. 3u chiv®, Nine. A numerical sign without other
meaning. An original writing contains
ninelines. Radicalis Z #* a hook, the 5th.

% ﬁ, %% ch?, Few, nearly. The radical is £ yao'.
(See No. 24.)
It is a guard R shu', of soldiers on the
frontier who are watching the slightest
movements and are attentive to the least
things # yu'. Therefore to examine,
subtle, hidden, small, few.
ﬂ, 88 yu', has the mcaning of % yao' reinforced, i.e.,
very small, slender, almost invisible. (W.
90 D.) (See No. 24.)
’& h'g shu', To guard the frontiers; from A man
’ carrying a X ko','spear. See No. 2. (W.
25D.)

® m,m liang®, Two. An ounce, a pair. From a
picture of a standing scale i the upper
stroke having been added in modern times
to indicate the beam (or equilibrium). The
idca of a pair inay have been suggested
by the balanced scale pans. (W. 385 H.)

A,A Jju*, is the radical, No. 11, meaning to enter, or
to put on either pan of the scales. It
represents roots entering the ground A
the opposite of i ch’u to go out, which
represents a plant growing up. (W.
15A))
Page-24
14
36 * % per?’, The trunk of a tree. The line across the
4 A& mu', tree, represents the surface of the
ground, drawing attention to the part of
the tree below ground, the roots. So
voot, source, natural, native; capital.
Books. (W. 120 A.) A mu, wood, is the
radical, No. 75.

 

Jjen', To know well ; to recognize ; to acknow—
ledge. 5 % # yeu® tzu' p'ang® is the radi-
cal, No. 149. Words and % jen’, patient
(phonetic combination).

a , & jer’, Patient, to bear, suffer, endure, patience,
harsh. i hsin' is the radical. A. jen', a
cutting weapon, formed of 7] tao', with a
stain on the edge, 6r something being cut
by it. Tap' 71 is the 18th radical, 5 a
picture of the Chinese razor or cleaver. A
heart-under a knife-edge means to suffer,
(W. 52 B.) Incomposition at the right
J7'is written §. A heart that has endured
Z the monotony of continual practise
knows well its lesson &8.

. E, @ mai®, To buy. Mencius says, “net [ the
market gains # ] 7’ ; better explained by
“to .wrap up a thing with its price in
cowries H in a net B§.” (W, 161 D.)

E, e pei, A cowrie shell. “These were used for
mouney in early times. The seal character
shows the feelers of the live shell. Itis
the radical, No. 154, of things relating to
values and trade. (W. 161 A.)

PA wang, Net, radical No. 122 (called I %% i
ssu* tzu' pu' by the writers, hecause modi-
Page-25
39%"&

Y%

15

fied to look like a P4 szu* when used at the
top of characters) ; in some it is written
R or A. To entangle. (W.39 C.)

. shih*, chili* To keep in mind, know, recognize.
g yen®, word is the radical, No. 149.
ﬁ chik' A sword, to gather; potters’ clay;

office, official duty (now written MR).
Ancient chiefs or officials. These held a
X ko', when they gathered the people #
and announced their will & 1* (Shorten-
ed to F yin'). (W.71H.)

:%. E yin', sound, is the 180th radical, formed of &

yerf, utterance, and —a sound. The —is
placed in the O mouth torepresent a word
or sound issuing and in the seal character
this line is the only difference between &
ven® and F yin'. (W. 73 E.) “When
the peoples could repeat the words &
of the officials # -they were said to
know.” .

ch'a®, Tea. W t'sao’® tzu t'ou’ is the radical.

(See No. 22.) The plant i like a tree, &
for man A. This may do for a mnecmo-
nic, but the etymology is as follow's :

ﬁ—t yi*l, me, in wen Ii. From A pa', to dis-

tinguish, and £ she* house, in which com-
bination the [T at the bottom of the char—
acter is replaced by the A pa'. Chinese
custom requires any one entering a house
to call out and distinguish himself from
any other person by saying, “It is 1, so
and so, come for such and such a pur-
pose.”’  Silence renders one liable to
Page-26
16

suspicion. In ¥ it is a pure phonetic
combination, combination, contracted.

BB she* A shed, booth, house. Tt 15 the joimng &
ch® of O walls and of the thatchroof ¥ to
form a house. (W.14 C.)

a

E hsiel?, To write. Primitively to setin order
the things in a house, #* mien®, is the
radical, 40th. By extension, to set in order
one’s ideas, to write. The lower partis

a phonetic only.
ﬁ, Q yeh* A magpie. It is a modification of B
niac®, with a special head given it. B
niac’, is a long-tailed bird, a picture, the
196th radical. (W. 138 A. & C.) The
magpie is a bird of neat, trim appearance,
which may suggest the idea of order in

the combination.
42
wan®, Basin, cup, bowl,

i[O shil?, Stone. It is a piece of rock I fallen
from a cliff |~ han' (27th’ radical). It
forms the 112th radical. (W. 59 D.)
ZIZ . Wwau‘ Good behavior e yuan®, in the house *,
to comply with the demands of others,
therefore the derived meaning, to bend,
to cover; yield. Yuan® su to turnin bed,
acurling up, dignity or modesty U chiel?,
during the night, # hsi* (See No. 14) “It
is not decent,” says Confucius, “to lie
like a corpse.” * Stand like a pine (3%
1 fm ju® # sung';) Sit like a bell (& tso
i ju® 8 chung’;) Lie like a bow (BA wo' fn
ju® B kung';) Walk like the wind (# tsou®
i ju* B, feng'”) These are models of
Page-27
1

behaviour. From modesty inlying down,
yiar®, comes by extension to mean good
behaviour in general. (W. 64 D.)

Q. Ei chiel?, A seal. Some say the form where one
has slept. It is one half of the character
#8=30 ch’ing® or seal. One half of the seal
is kept at the yamen and the other given
to the individual concerned in the case.
(W, 55 A, B.) The phonetic %5 has the
idea. of order, and bowls B are a means
to secure order in eating.

. ﬁ D a w1, To have. Primitively it meant the phases
of the moon A as if a hand covered
it. Some say the eclipse of the moon,
with the same interpretation. To have,
is a borrowed meaning. (W.46 H.) To
have the hand on the moon might_weil be
called possession. .

H ,? yiieht, the moon, sthe radical, No. 74. A pic-
ture of the crescent moon completely visi~
ble (compare # hsi', No. 14), (W.64G.)

j‘,x, a yu', The right hand. The fingers reduced to
three for ease in writing. It is the 29th
radical. (W.43 B.) Itmeansalso,again.
The right hand returning repeatedly to
the mouth in eating suggests ‘* again.”

i =
ﬁ 5 % 7, Intention, thought.

4_',\ hsin', heart, is the radical, No. 61. The heart
or mind 1% of the speaker is known by the
sounds % that he utters. By extension
it_means alsc the thought that the mind
of the.hearer gets from the words 3 of the
speaker. (W. 73 E.)
Page-28
18

= i
-lgzym,

A sound. (See No. 39.)

45
E» @ ssu', To think; the wish of the heart. i is

the radital, No. 61.

m, [ﬂ, ® hsin' The skull, the cover of the brain (altered

B Hj gi Q.b ch'y'

. ﬁ ch't

= =

to look like Ml t'ien?, field). “ When one
thinks, B\ the vital fluid of the heart %
acts on the brain g hsin'.” Shuo Wen.

, To go forth, to go out. Toissue, to beget,
to eject. Primitively it represents stalks
growing out of the ground, the opposite
of A ju', No. 35. The ¥ small plant has
grown another pair of leaves. (W. 78 E.)
In combination often reduced to . The
radical is 1] Kan®, a receptacle, the
17th.

, Vapor, the & ch's* or fumes rising from
fermenting X ms® ,rice; ether, breath,
air. It is substituted in common use for
theé radical X and is in much use in philo-
sophy for the primal aura or vital fluid.

U "X ck'#, vapor, is the radical, No. 84, meaning

x

m#,

curling vapors rising from the ground and
forming clouds. Ancient forms show the
sun H and 4 fire which cause the vapors.
Contracted into % ch’#® it means to beg.
(W.98 A)

Rice after it is hulled ; qther small grains
and things small like rice. 1t rcpresents
four grains 34 separated -+. The + often
means separation toward the four quar-
ters North, South, East and West. (W.
122 A It is the 119th radical.
Page-29
“Bﬂ'ﬁ

R3
©

4.8

A

19

peng®, A friend, companion, peer. Now com-
posed of two moons; but it has nothing
to do with B yiieh®, the radical of classi~
fication in Kang Hsi, but comes from an
ancient primitive § feng’, representing the
tail of the phoenix, and by extension
meaning the bird itself, now written M.
The character fjj was then changed in
pronunciation te p'eng’, and taken to
mean friend, because the phoenix draws
all other birds after it; or two birds
together, therefore friend, (Chalfant) §B
p'eng®, was a fabulous bird, the roc, from
which the i may have derived its pro-
nunciation of p'eng®. (W. 64 1.)

yu’, Friend, associate. From two hands X
acting in the same direction. X yu',is
the radical, No. 29. (W.43 P.)

chien', Classifier of many things, item,’ a
part, A is the radical.

s, Cow, ox. The 93rd radical, a plcture of,
head, horns, legs and tail. This combma-
tion suggests any thing from a man to an
ox. Thus it can be applied to almost
anything.

!, Clothes, especially upper garments. 145t1,1
radical of many characters relating to
clothing. In composition it has the fol-
lowing forms: 1. when at the left of
the character % ; 2. cut into halves, the
2. being at the top and the & being at the
bottom of the character. (It must not
Page-30
¥

581E

then be confused with - the eighth Fadical,
the 4 at the bottom being the test); 3.
both parts may be changed by fusion with
other parts of the character when split,

Ceg., ¥¥%. It also is placed either at

the top or the bottom of a character un-
changed. It pictures the sleeves.and the
skirts hanging below. (W.16 A.)

shang', Clothes for the lower part of the

body. # is the radical (see No. 51.)

Z1S N . .
fl!'j, fé\ shang', is a phonetic here. }jis contracted to

#. when in composition, meaning a roof
orahouse. Itrepresents the ridgepole and
sides of the house as in ** mien®, buthasa
window 11 added and a A pa/, divide, in-
dicating that the ridgepeople divides the
wind and water, or i K feng' shu®. This
ridge raised at both ends is placed last of
all, and so the character means to add to,
still, elevated, noble, superior. It is a
suggestive phonetic as the clothing is a
house or cover for the body. (W. 36 E.)

pa**’, To take hold of, gragp, classifier of

things held in the hand. Read pa' a
handle, pa®, a handful. “ To.clap B the
hand ¥ on something.”

P, ¥ show, The hand, handy, skill, workman. It is

the radical, No. 64. When written at the
side called £ F ¢'7* shou’. X 3 is the pic-
ture of a side view of the hand, F is the
full palm. In the ancient writing the &
represents the lines in the palm. (W.
48 A.)
Page-31
21

E a pa', A kind of boa, short and thick. Itis re-
opreSented raised on its tail. It is found
in the south ; its flesh is eaten and its skin
is used to cover guitars, % pa'. (W. 55
L.) It also means a slap, clap.

51
ﬁ #, A chair. The radical is Kk mu', the 75th.

(See No. 25.)
é ? ch’#, Unusnal, strange, rare. That which

causes men X to exclaim in admiration #.

j( ta', Great, 37th radical, in combination
means man, representing head, arms and
legs.

-I 7 k0% To send forth a breathing of approba-
tion € from the mouth M, to express
satisfaction, to be willing, permit, admire.
Logical combination (W. 58 I). The
Chinese; being used to sitting on their
heels, or flat on the kK’ang’, the chair seems
so much more comfortable as to.be a sur-
prising or strange thing.

- i;E chang', To draw a bow, stretch, extend.
Classifier of things of extended surface.
5, 3, B kung’, a bow, is the radical, No. 57. A pic-

144 ture. Ancient forms also represent it

bent or vibrating. (W. 87 A.)
ﬁ,-ﬁ- chang®*, To grow, excel, senior.

ﬁ ch'ang?, Long. The primitive form represents
locks of hair so long that they must be
tied by a band — and a hairpin Y. With
¥, an inverted or changed man, added, it
means manhood, grown up so the hair is
long. By extension it means long in time
or space, to grow. The modern form is
Page-32
an arbitrary contraction. 168th radical.

(W.113 A.)
56
*ﬁ cho!, Table. K mu'is the radical. (See No.
25.)

ﬁ, ,§ cho', Surpassing, high elevated. It represents
a mast surmounted by a globe and a
fame, an ornament of which the Chinese
are fond. It is imitated in the yamen flag
staffs. (W. 143 F.) A table being high
as compared with chairs and stools, this
phonetic meaning high is selected appro-
priately.

BALLER, LESSON IIL

o ':P, ,# chung', The middle, among, in. Chung?, to hit
? the mark, attain, pass an examination.
‘The character represents a square target
pierced in the center by an arrow. The
form of the target is lost in this modern
writing, but is retained in J§ yung.” (W.

109 A.) See No. 225.
kun*, A down stroke, a perpendicular, is the
radical, No. 2. It has a symbolic signifi-
cation in many characters, e.g.: the trunk
in A mu', tree ; an arrow in ¥ chung'; a
spindle running through two objects in
Hi ch’uan', i.e., to string together; a bow
string in 3] yin’, to draw a bow, to lead ;
a man standing in # sher’, to gird one's

self. (W.6 A.)

56 .
E, .é pai®, One hundred, many, all. The unity of
hundreds is represented by — !, one, and
Page-33
23

B pai®, white. It is purely a phonetic
combination. B is the radical, 106th.
(See No. 6.) (W. 88 A. and B.)

59
:F_.,#_ chi’en’, Thousand, very many. Ten - hun-
dred (but the & pai®is not here).

+ shih,, Ten, symbol of extension in two dimen-
sions, is the radical, No. 24. The ./ at
the top of the character is the abbrevia-
tion for A jen®, which is phonetic in this
character. (W.'24 D. and A.Y

« ﬁ, g wan', Ten thousand ; an indefinite number,
wholly, emphatic particle. Written /! itis
the Indian swastika, symbol of Buddha’s
heart, dlso meaning 10,000. The radical
in Kang Hsi's dictionary is * t'sao’, but
the character has nothing to do with that
radical ; originally it being the picture of a
scorpion, € # being the feelers, ® K
being the head, and . #J the legs and the
tail. It was then pronounced ch’ai, but
as there were other words for scorpion it
was horrowed for the meaning 10,000.
(W. 23 H.)

B ? ling?, Small rain, or last drops of a shower,
a fraction, residue.
l_‘vﬁ, FlF) ¥, rain, is the radical, the 173rd. It repre-
sents drops of water X The law of rain
is to come in drops or showers not in
deluges, thus this is an appropriate symbol
for a fraction. (W. 141L)
’%’@ Iing!, A law, an order, to command, vour
honored. It is formed of A chi’. the
Page-34
24

notion of union, assemblage, being the
joining of three lines (see No. 18), and P
chieh?, a seal (see No. 42.) Therefore
4 an order, is the uniting ¢ of the
written document and the P seal,—i..,
the stamping of the order. (Note that
when 0 ¥ ou?, is added, we have i ming,
an order or command by word of mouth,
and the decree of heaven). (W.14 A.1))

= . @ hu?, To return to or from ; a time. Moham-
IE] medan. A turn or revolution. -It re-
presents an eddy (like the curling clouds
of smoke, or whiripools in water) or an
object that rolls, turns on an axis; hence
the abstract idea of fevolving, return.
O wei® is the radical, twice written.
(SeeNo. 28.) (W.76G.) Also written [g.

63
% chi’ng®, To invite, to request, to engage.
% yerf, is the radical, the 149th. (See No.
10.)

% 'ﬁ' ch’ing’, The green of sprouting plants,also blue,
black, gray, white of an egg. The 174th
radical. It is made up of % sheng,
plants, and #+ tan', their color (red),"as if
the miakers of the character were color
blind. #+ tan'is cinnabar, 4 red mercury
ore, represented by the » for the oreina
crucible A where it was sublimed by the
alchemists in search of the philosophers’
stone for turning base metals to gold.
(W. 115 D.) | H may be the Chinese stove
‘with the round hole red with fire.
Page-35
25

64 H& ﬁ lai®, To come; in the future. The radical is A
’ jer®. Itis formed of A, a primitive repre-
senting a plant and s or ears of grain
hanging from it ; a sort of bearded barley,
used as food in the Chou Dynasty. The
Shuo Wen says it means come, because the
gtain eaten by men comes from heaven.
It is more probably a borrowed meaning
without logical explanation. (W. 13 B.)

65
ﬁ’ﬁ wen', To ask, inquire. Theradicalis I Ko,
mouth (radical No. 30). The O placed
in a [ men®, door, isa snitable character
for the meaning, to ask. (See Nos.5 and9.)

66 .
élé, @ tso*, To sit down, to rest, to place, to reign.
The radicalis + ¢'v, the 32nd. Two men
A sitting on the earth + faoe to face
to talk. (W. 27 D.)

67

*, % ch'itt, To go. L ssu', is the radical, the 28th.
It is made, however, from a picture of an
empty vessel U ch’'a' and its cover & ;
hence the meaning of to empty, tc remove,
leave, go, all being ideas connected with
the removing of the cover of a vessel and
its contents. The top resembles + ¢« in
the modern writing, and X ta‘ in the old.
The bottom is like /y ssa', but here stands
for U ch’d’, a basin. (W. 38 F.)

68
T. ? . Iiad®, A child in swaddling clothes. (Compare
- F,No.1.) Thischaracter being of no use
R was borrowed for the common suffix to

Ticis . -
B denote past time in a verb, or the end of
Page-36
26

a sentence, conclusion, intelligent, cleat.
(W.94 H.) j kun' is the radical, No. 2,
perpendicular.

B %} ) %% tui*, Opposite; parallel sentences on scrolls
hung oppositc each other; to correspond
to, to suit, mateh, agrecing with ; sign of
dative.

=} 5 ¢'sun inch, is the radical, the 41st, to mea-
sure. The dot represents the pulse on the
wrist about an inch from the hand. In
composition used often for ? hand. (W.
45.B.) -
tsao® Luxuriant vegetation, being a repre-
sentation of its branching into many
twigs from a single stem; emanation,
multitude, faggot. (W. 102 1.)

-t shilt, A scholar, gentleman; the 33rd radical;
from — i* and + shih® because all things
are comprised between the numerative one
and ten, therefore an affair (same as ),
a thing, and by extension a sage, scholar
(W.24 C.). Before 100 B.C™'0 K'ou® was
in the place of d: shih*. Tui* therefore

%ﬂ means to apply a measure ~f i’szm‘ to-the
ga luxuriant emanation ¥ of men’s mouths 1
K'ou®, i.e., men’s testimonies. Emperor

‘Wen Ti, in 100 B. C. changed the writing
to - shih* to remind his officers that men’s
testimouies O must not be believed, but
only the words of the 4 sages, which alone
deserve to be examined ~. (W.1021L)

70
@, kuo®, A state, country. From [ wei?, a boun-
dary (the radical, No. 31) and
Page-37
2

71%

27

yu' a primitive appanage, post, a center; the
huo', land — that one baron defended with

the weapons X of his retainers, around his
[ castle, or town, whose limits are not
indicated because there were none. Pro-
nounced huo' it means by extension an in-
determinate person, whose name is not
given, being known only as from a certain
estate; by extension, again, uncertain,
perhaps, ““a certain ome.” With the [J
wei* or boundary added, it becomes an
estate well defined, a country B. (W.
717.)

sheng', Sound, music, voice, accent, tone; to

declare.

E, a erh®, ear, is the radical, the 128th, used ina

natural group of characters relating to
hearing. It is a picture of the external
ear. (W.146 A.)

7% 75 ch'ing* On the right is % shu’, the 79th radi-

&

cal meaning the right hand (W. 22 D.),
making a jerky motion, to strike, a staff,
to kill. On the left is a primitive pictur-
ing sonorous jade or quartz stones sus-
pended from a frame to make a musical
instrument ; these stones were in the form
of a carpenter’s square, and were struck
like a triangle. The character is now
written with a # shil® #g. 7 is used as
an abbreviation of . The combination
of ear I and musical stones 7 struck by
the hand % naturally makes # sound.
(W.173 A)
Page-38
28
72 %

"

74 nz

shuo', To talk, speak, converse, sayings,

doctrines.

% yen?, is the radical, No. 149. (See No. 10.)
5= ’g yiiel', To speak, to rejoice, i.e., good words

5 that dispel A grief and rejoice % the
hearer. This is made up of % (huang’,
ancient pronunciation, a mouth [ on top
of a man JL, or to speak authoritatively;
pronounced hsiung® it is the oldest brother
who must exhort his brothers) and A to
dissipate the breath or divide it into
words, to speak. Byan arbitrary modern
borrowing the character is read tus*, and
means exchange. (W. 29 D.)

hua', Words, discourse, a language. Words §

of the & she?, tongue.

S yer?, is the radical, No. 149. (See No. 10.)
& % she?, Tongue, is a picture of the tongue pro-

truding from the mouth. (Compare &
han®, the tongue drawn back into the
mouth &.) It is the 135th radical. (W.
102 C.)

ch'il?, To stutter, to swallow, to eat ; to suffer.
3 X o0i?, mouth is the radical, No. 30.
,eE ch'i® To beg. It is a contraction of & ch'i,

vapor, breath,—the 84th radical. (See No.
47.) In this form it is borrowed for &
kai* to mean beg. (W.98 A.)

To stammer " is to fill the mouth O with
breath 4, and make no progress in speech.
In eating one mouths the food as in stam-
mering one moqths the breath, hence toeat.
Page-39
29

75 m fan', A meal, cooked rice (the chief dish of a

meal).

ﬁ shih®, to eat, is the radical, No. 184, re-

'§ lating to food in general. It is formed of
4 chi?, to collect (see No.'18), and B ¢
hsiang®, boiled grain, the sweet smel of
the # fan'. Itis a picture of the bowl &
and its contents—, and a g pi’, spoon, to
ladle it out. p pP, spoon, is the 21st
radical. (W-. 26,'C.L.M.) Gather & the
family to eat & the rice B.

E fan®, To return, turn back, turn over; oppo-

ﬁ site; torebel. From X yu', hand, andJ~
a representation of the motion of the hand
in turning over. (J~ han', is a cliff, a
retreat, shelter. Radical No. 27.) (W.
43 E.) In eating the hand returns again
and again X to the mouth with & food.

76

%. % erh’, A male child, a person with the fontanel-

les of the skull not yet closed.
JL jen®, man, the 10th radical, is the radical of

this character.
The upper part is written like £1 chiu®, the
134th radical, but it is really & hsin',
sknll; written open above, as the skullis
in an infant. (W. 29 B.)

B l% hsiao®, Dawn, bright, to understand; ie., a
high and bright £ sun H.
H jitt, sun, is the radical combined with
& yao’, emittent, lofty. From # yao®, earth,
heaped up (three 3 earths) and JL wu', a
Fad high base, level ontop. ¥ Yao'is the name
of a famous ancient emperor, 2300 B.C.
Page-40
(W. 81 C.) When the sun H is high %&
one can see and understand B&.

te’, To get, receive.

//f , ? ch'ik* to take a step forward with the left

foot, to walk (60th radical) is the radical
(W. 63 A). It was added to this char-
acter late, and is superflugus.

%, l% te’ to obtain, to get, is the original writing of

the character, % and in the seal writing
shows its etymology, viz., to get.the hand
=t on that which one has in view R.
The 5 chient, see, is reduced to B. (W.
45 E.) See No. 85.

t’sun’, Inch. See No. 69.

mo* or mei®, To sink in the water, to dive, to
perish ; none of, not, least, without.

7k, R: shui®, Water, is the radical (No. 85.) The

central stroke represents a rivulet, and
the others the ripples on the surface of
the water. (W.12A,B; 125 A.)

mu* To dive, while turning [ hui?, on oneself
in order to get 3. something under the
water, the head being below. The @ huf’,
is changed by scribes to 73. (W. 76 1.)

chii', A sentence.

1 K ou’, mouth, is the radical with
Ij Q pao' to wrap up, (the 20th radical), from a

picture of a man bending over to envelop
an object in his apron ; therefore to enfold,
a bundle, to contain, a whole, The mouth
i1 used to form a whole /7 phrase or sen-
tence. (W. 54 A, for pao'.)
Page-41
81 IE,:Et

31

tsai', To be in or at; i.., to exert onc's
powers ¥ t'sai®, oit the earth +; or pre-
sence in a place 4 #'u’, is manifested by
one’s activity #. 4 is the rad. (W. 96 D)

  
 

T:}A 5 1: t'saf’, has been modified to 1°. It is a tree

YEX

grown to a size for timber, materials, now
written # t'sai®; then force of expan-
sion, natural activity, mental capacity,
talents, the substance of a thing. (W.

96 A))

I, The lining of clothes ; inner, inside ; to the
left (in rules of the road).
I{ i', clothes, is the radical, No. 145; (see No. 51.)
I I, a village, is the phonetic, but being placed
inside the radical for clothes it suggests
the meaning of lining or inside. (W.
16 G.) It is the 166th radical, of a few
incongruous characters. Itis made up of
B tien, ficld, the (102nd radical), being a repre-
sentation of a furrowed field, and of
:t t'd®, carth. Its common meaning of I, or
one-third of un English mile, comes from
the ancient custom of the smallest village
being composed of the fields of eight
families being arrunged around a ninth
public field with a wéll represented by the
pictorial character 3 ching® (the dot being
the well.) Oneside of the square was one
Ii#in length. When the custom went out
of use the character 3k ching” lost the dot
and retained the simple meaning of well.
M t'ien® being easy to write, is used to re-
present many objects. (W.149, A and D.)
Page-42
32
83 wei’, To be, to make; wes, for, becaunse, in
ﬁ : % ké order to. ’
% m chua’, chao®, claws, the prone hand, is the
radical (No. 87.)
The seal character represents a mother
monkey, sitting with one hand at its head
and the other at the bottom of the char-
acter mixed up with its tail and feet. In
the middle is the character for man A
because of the monkey’s likeness to a man,
and the primitive character for breasts to
show that it is a mlother. The Shuo Wen
says that of all animals (literally * birds )
the female monkey is most prone to claw
3 78 % #F K and ‘therciore the character
JR chao®, stands as its symbol. Thereis
an ancient writing consisting solely of two
claws . The character has lost its pri-
mitive meaning, and now is borrowed for
to be, because, etc. (W. 49 H.)

BALLER, LESSON IV.

&t %’ am ch’uang?, A bed, couch, sled. |
K H ciiang’, is the radical (No. 90), a heavy
slab, a thick, strong plank. It is the left
half of the kX mu* as written in thefseal
form (W. 127 A))
A, R mu', Wood. A bed #k is made of strong pieces
H of wood *.

85
E, g chiert, To see. This is the 147th radical, [of
characters relating to sight, perception.
Page-43
P8

33

Wieger explains it as an eye H mu', onfa
man A (W.158 C.). But Chalfant finds a
writing more ancient than the seal writing
£, which is a picture of the eye emitting
light. The.Chinese believe that light
comes out of a normal eye, enabling] it
to see.

ti*, An order, series ; before a number it forms

the ordinal. .

¥ chu?, bamboo, the 118th radical, is the radical.

(See No. 7.) 1Itis chosen perbaps because
of the graduation of joints in a bamboo
stalk.

ﬁ;, % ti*, Represents a thread or strap wound around

w5 g

= 3.9

a spindle having a catch on top and a
catch or winch below. It is a primitive
hobbin or reel, and means by exten-
sion a succession of brothers, and now
only the younger brothers. This primi-
tive is appropriate for series, asis also
the bamboo, 45 used as its radical. (W.
87 E.)

chang', A strain in music or a chapter in a

book, or an essay ; rules.

:\I Ii*, to establish, stand, (the 117th radical) is

arbitrarily taken for the radical ; but the.
etymology is from % yin' (See No. 39),
sound, and - shili?, ten, a perfect number.
Therefore ten 4 sounds & make-a strain
of music ; and the meaning is extended to
a chapter, or an essay.

tact, To arrive at, to reach.
Page-44
J] tac', knife, is the radical (No. 18.) (See No.

37.) Baut here it has phonetic force as
well.

E,Q chik* To go, to arrive at (classical). The

B A
fL * &

133rd radical. 1t represents a bird &
flying down to the carth, —, therefore to
arrive, reach. (W. 133 B.) It is both
pictorial and indicative in its composition.

hung?, Red, lucky, pleasant.
ssu' or mi* is the radical (No. 120.) (See No.

8.) Textile matters, especially silk, in-
terested the Chinese from ancient times;
hence the importance given to these ele-
ments in their writing. [, O ssu!, the
28th radical, is a single cocoon in which
the worm wraps himself up, caring for
nothing but self; therefore the meaning,
selfish, private, separation. (W. 92 A.)

I,l kung', is purely phonetic. Work, workman,

* %KY

&R
A

time of work. It pictures the ancient
carpenter’s sqnare, and so by extension
means work, skill, or any ornament re-
quiring skill. (W.82A.)

Red #L not being a natural color of silk #
it requires the work T. of the dyer to pro-
duce red silk.

hao®, Good, right, very ; hao', to be fond of.

From % mu’, woman, and F tzu®, child,
Wife % and child F are what one is most
fond of #. (Or the fondness of a woman
for her child.) Sec No. 1.

nif’, is the Radical, No. 38. It originally was

a woman standing in cercmonial attitade
Page-45
a1 —h' _L

"FT

93 %’F&]

35

with arms hangng and crossed over the
body. So symmeétrical a character was
hard to write, and the seal is a modifica-

tion of the more ancient form. (W.
67 A.)

shang*, Above, superior, to mount, upon.
i', representing a horizontal ‘base line, is the

radical: The perpendicular line above it
represents something above the level. (An
indicative character.) It was originally
written —, the short upper line represent—
ing something above the longer base line.
At the top of some characters it is written
—, as in 3 7 3% where it is distinguished
from a. tou?, the fictitious eighth radi—
cal. (W.5 A"

hsia, Below, to descend, inferior.
1, is the radical, with the perpendicular below

it to represent something below as in the
preceding character. It was anciently

written = the longer line representing the
base. (W.5 B.)

war?®, Finished, complete, to settle (as an

affair).

> mien? house, roof, is the radical, No. 40. (See

No. 1.)

JU yijar®, That which is upon = (equivalent to

E, Sce No. 91.) a man Ji, i.e., the head,
origin, principle. While phonetic in force
in this character, we may say, ‘ Putting
on the roof ~ over the head Jt finishes 58
the building.”” (W. 29 H.)
Page-46
86

84 g sung*, To escort, to see a guést out ; to give a
gift ; to accuse at court.
;?_ cho* going, is the radical, No. 162.
* ﬁ cheng® A fire that can be handled, as to bend
i planks for a° boat or to caulk a boat;
charcoal.
A torch X carried f to escort a guest out
$2. 3 is a suggestive phonetic and of no
value to the beginner. (W.-47 J.)

b ﬁ kuan', A cross bar of a gate, to shut or har
*  the gate, a custom-house barrier, suburb.
F’i mer?, door, is the radical, No. 169. (See No. 5.)
ﬁy&ﬁ $§ kuan' To pass threads through a web with a
i shuttle. The # ssu' (contracted into %%)
represents the warp. The down strokes
in the lower part represent the shuttle
carrying the thread through to form a
woof. (See Nos. 8 and 24.) By exten-
sion it means to join, to fix transversely.
(W. 92 G.) The cross,bar of the gate
passes through the slots and iron loops
like a shuttle passing through the warp.

L $, g shih*, To serve, affairs, office, matter, anything.
1 kou'is the radical, the 6th. It is from
' 5 shil® shows a hand 3 holding a stylus. A
? recorder, to record. In ¥ the top is =2
chil', the pronoun it. An event ¥, record
1B it 2z faithfully.

 

% %5, ﬁ\ chuan', To bore X with the teeth 3, to per-
forate; to put on clothes, wear ; to thread,

- to string.
I\ hsiieh®, A cave, a hole, any dwelling, ie., a
Page-47
37

room or space ,» made by the removal A
pa' of the earth; to dig through, bore.
The 116th radical. (W. 37 A, D.)

H;, ﬁ va’, The teeth, the grinders or molar teeth,

* 0 R

hooks. It is a picture of the grinding
face of a molar. The teeth of rodents make
holes through which thoy gain access.

chin*, To go or come to, to follow ; to make

the best of ; then, soon, immediately.

ﬁ.ﬁ_wang‘ radical No. 43, is the radical under

which it is found in the dictionaries. A man
& who puts his weight on his right leg ; to
spring ; lame, crooked, also written 3t.
(W. 61 C.) This classification. was an
etymological. error, howeveér, for it comes
from

jﬁa yu?, which in the seal writing pictures

e A

a dog with its ears pricked up. By
extension, attracted to, surprise, strange.
(W, 134 C.)

, @ ching', T‘he capital ; originally high, elevated ;

Ll

being a contraction of @ kao’, high, the
bottom changed by substituting j for m,
adding the ‘idea of elevation, and by
reducing [ to /\; it has nothing to do
with /p hsiao®. The capital is the place
to which the people go ; hence towards.
# Admiration or attraction to J; some-
thing high # therefore to go towards, to
follow, consequently. (W. 75 C.)
Chalfant finds an ancient form of 3
picturing the gatc tower of a walled city
with the opening in perspective.
Page-48
38
99 t'ing', To hear, to listen, to understand, to
%' gg allow.

) ﬁ erh?, the ear (see No. 71.), is the R., No. 128.

E‘ 2 t'ing® Good, full ; from a man standing ou the
earth in his official position (to be dis-
tinguished from F jen®), is the phonetic.
(W.81D)

= E te?, Virtue. Therefore we have #§ ¢'ing” as the
virtue R practised by the ear ¥; ie,
hearing, to obey. 3, te®, used for the
Christian terim character, virtue, is usually
written 18, with the F adding the idea of
going out to others, action. Its composi-
tion is of i chil?, upright, and i hsin',
heart ; an upright heart. -

@' E chil?, is composed of L representing a horizon-
tal and a perpendicular, + ten and H eye.
Before the days of square and plumb-line,
ten eyes were called on to test the straight-
ness of the frame of a house. The L is
often changed to a single straight line. It
is often written incorrectly i as if of two
strokes. (W. 10, K.)

100 ﬁ], ﬁu chil' To know, perceive; chih', wisdom.
5&]% shik® an arrow, dart, is the radical, No. 111.
* It is a picture, the point above, notch and
feathers below. Therefore an action that
% has come to an end, irrevocable, as an
ancient form shows the arrow fixed in a
man’s body. (W.131A.)
United with O k' ou®, mouth, we have the
knowledge possessed by one who can give
Page-49
his word, opinion, with the precision and
speed of an arrow. Knowledge 41 is an
arrow %& mouth O.

101 ﬁ
tao', To go at the head, tolead; a road, a
' path, principle, doctrine ; the progress of a
s speech, to speak.
3-=F cho' is the -R., the 162nd, to go. (See
. No. 10.)
é‘ shou', the head, is the primitive & shou, head,
% with the hair added, being a pictorial
character. (W is not & ch'uan’, streams,)
185th radical.
To lead, road, 3 is to go & at the head,
#. (W.160 A)) Itis the way not only.
for the feet to walk in & but also for the
thoughts % to move in.

102
ﬁ. K an', To look, to see, to regard carefully. It
is composed of ;—

H.® mut, an eye (which is the radical, No. 109), a
ﬂ picture (compressed and often set upright

to save room), (W. 158 A.) and
$ shou®, the hand, covering the eye or shading it.
“For,” says the Shuo Wen, ‘“ one shades
the eyes in order to see better, cutting off
the rays of the sun, and gathering the

light " from the eye. (W.48 C.)

103 g . .
na’, Hands* = united & ho®; to take, to sieze;
a sign of the accusative when placed before
the noun.
ZF show’, hand, is the radical, No. 64. (See No.

53.)
/él’ ho? joining, unitin~ union, harmony. Form-
Page-50
40

104 %

ed of & chf a triangle, union, being three
lines united (see No. 18), and O Kou’,
mouth. Three or many A mouths O.
together shows good understanding, har-
mony. . (W.14 A, B.)

To take with the hand € requires the
hand F to come in contact with £ the

object.

pient, To walk on the edge of a precipice, to'

fall in and disappear; a bank between
fields, margin, edge, boundary, i.e., the
place where the thing disappears.

L‘ ﬁ cho', to go, is the radical, the 162nd. (See No.

10.)

§, ﬁ yen' Disappearance, absence. Inmodern writ-

ing the M (double cover) has been changed
to % arbitrarily. It is made up of:—

E, @ tzi*, a picture of the nose; a starting point,

origin, beginning, evolution; the nose
being, according to Chinese embryology,
the starting point in the development of
the body ; self, I, my behavior, to act ; the
nose being the projecting part and in a
‘way the characteristic of the person; the
132nd radical ; (W. 159 A.) and

7\ hsizeh’ a cave, storehouse, and

% - @

105@

a double cover meaning  invisibility.
Thercfore % yen' is an object that was at
one time B tzu' in a storeroom X and
later on disappeared M. Therefore i# is to
walk Z on the disappearing line & ; the
edge. (W.34K.)

t'od?, The head, the end of a beam or street,
Page-51
41

etc., the beginning; a classifier of affairs,
cattle, etc,

E. R veh', Head, page, man. A picture ofa head or
face B upon a man A. It is the radical,

A the 181st. (W. 160 C.)

K. B tou', A sacrificial dish,a dish in which meat was
served ; beans, (being used for ¥ tou*). The
151st radical. It is possibly a suggestive
phonetic in this character. The skull
encloses the brain as a dish its contents,
and the Thibetans use the skull bone for
a dish, on a tripod standard. (W.165A.)

b ﬁ hsiang', A box, a chest. (Larger than [E 3

hsia® tzu.)

HT chu?, bamboo, is the radical, the 118th, indi-
cating the material. (See No. 7.)

H#H hsiang, to examine, to inspect. It may be

*9 from H mu, to watch from behind a A&
mut, tree; or to keep the eye H open in
the &k woods so as to avoid danger from
foes or beasts. The more common abstract
meaning of mutual, reciprocity, etc., is said
to come from a kind of pun, both elements,
7 and H being pronounced alike, mu'. It
is purely phonetic here. (W. 158 B.)

BALLER, LESSON V.

e aﬁ wan’®, Late, evening, sunset, twilight, late in
life, tardy.
B jik', sun, is the radical, No. 72, as the charac-
ter has to do with the declining sun.
ﬁ, ?g mien?, a man )L whose sides are swollen out
Page-52
108 ﬁﬁ,ﬁ

£1 with his effort, and whose legs are
spread out to prop “himself firmly to fight
or ward off some evil ; therefore it means
to avoid, without. In BE it is purely
phonetic. (W.106 A.) According to Mr.
Chalmers % is a man trying to hide him-
self by drawing in to his clothing; hence
to avoid. Thesun H withdrawing £, it
is late Bg:

ch’ier?, To advance, forward, toward, before,

formerly.

T) tac', is the radical, 18th, arbitrarily fixed

without reference to the etymologj. The
upper part A4 is a contraction of ik, chik’,
to stop, and the fil is a contraction of

ﬁ]’,-g chor?’ a. boat, the 137th radical. It is

109%

a picture in the seal writing of a boat
with high curved prow, a deck supported -
by one.of the partitions in the hull, an oar
in front and a rudder behind. It is
straightencd and placed upright to save
room. (W.66 A.) A boat jit advancing
#j into the harbor where it will stop Ik
(W. 66 D.)

K uai*, A flow of spirits, cheerful ; promptness,
.. rapid, sharp, quick.

'l'4= L shut hsin', is the radical, the 61st, meaning

heart. See No. 18.

i ; chiieh® To divide, to partake, a hand 3 holding

a half of a- ¥ chung® or object of any kind,
that may be equally divided. (W. 43 0.)
Chalmer’s explains it as a hand drawing
a bowstring and about to let the arrow
Page-53
43

fly ; therefore quick. As quickness depends
on the mind, the radical it» is added.

110
qa, & nier?, A vear ; at first, the crop or harvest, and
then the year, for that is the time taken to
produce the thousand grains. o
F.°F kar, A shield, is the radical, the 51st ; a trunk
¥ -or stem; to look after or concern; origi-
nally a picture of a pestle, so to grind,
destroy offend against, blunt arms, crime.
The seal writing of 4¢ nien® shows that F-
kan' has nothing to do withit, but that it
is really composed of & ho®, grain in the -
field, the 115th radical, and F ch'ien!,
thousand. -(W. 24 D.)

m
?‘, % tsao’, Barly, morning, soon, formerly.

H jik', sun, is the radical, the 72nd, as the idea
early, has to do with the rising sun. The
=+ shik® is a primitive writing of ® chia®,
1 is thc first of the heavenly stems, there-
fore this indicates the first sum, early.
(W. 143 E))

uz g —
t'iao', To carry a load from the two ends of a
pole, to stir up, to choose, to reduce.

#‘ shou® or ¢'i* shou® is the radical. See No. 53.
% chao!, omen, is a picture of the lines on the
,M( back of a tortoise shell brought out by
heating for divination ; in the middle is
pi in its ancient form ; an omen, a million
or vast number. (W.56 D.) This phonetic
[)(‘ is the same asin % t'ac’to run. Itis two
A pa' characters, one outside the other
Page-54
44

indicating wide separation; It has been
confused with J§ because in the modern
writing they are identical. Loads carried
in this way must be widely separated.

i 3E ﬁ tien!, Heaven, the sky, a day, the weather,
’ celestial ; the ‘Emperor, great, high, any
superior over an inferior ; moral superi~

ority.

j( ta', great, is the radical, but the meaning of
the character is not- the one — great X, as
it is often t-anslated, but the one sky —
which is over man Xk ; thus it is an indi-
cative charzeter, not a logical combina-
tion. (W.60C and 1.C.)

. 4
1 Eﬁ' gq chiel?, The nodes or joints of the bamboo, any
joint, knot, verse; a feast day; temperance,
,ﬂ' ¢chif, is the radical, No. 118, bamboo. (See
) No. 7.)
B, 2% chi* To eat, that whichis done as soon as the
fragrance of the cooked rice B (see No.
75) is smelt. By extension a conjunction
meaning consequence in general, being the
equivalent’ in wen Ii of the B chiu* of
common use. (W. 26 M.)
B § thiel?, indicates order. in ). Itis written
either Dor B. (Sec No. 42.) It is the
26th radical, meaning joint, (W. 55 B.)

115 =
w”)v‘\ﬁ ci'd', To cut out Jj tao' clothes & 1*; ie.,
to begin making garments, which is the
first step in civilization; to begin, the
first, at first.
Page-55
45

7] tao', knife, is the radical, the 18th. Tor #&
!, see No. 51. # The first thing in making
clothes % is to cut out JJ. (W. 16 B.)

116 -
% kef®, To give to, to let, allow, for, instead of,

to. Read ch#®, to receive, to afford, to give
out. .

fft ssut* silk floss, is the radical, No. 120.

é ho*,.To join, union, harmony. {(See No. 103.)
To give is to join & silk threads %. Silk
is a popular present.

117 gy

M , U% chiao*, To call, to tell, to command, to cause;
the cries of the birds and animals ; named;
termed.

1 Kou?, mouth, is the radical, No. 30.
3} % tou®, Measure, ten -+ sheng' or pints #. Itisa

picture of the peck measure, said to be a
scoop with a handle ; 68th R. (W. 98B.)
B} is to call out I the measure 3.

118

43‘, $ pan', To dividein two ; a half, a large piece of.
—l" shih? ten, is the classification in the standard
dictionary, the 24th radical. It comes
etymologically from A\, to divide, and 4
an ox. (See No. 50.) Todivide /A an ox
4 into two halves as butchers split the

beef down the backbone. (W.18 D.)

>
B 5@, iﬂ kuo', To pass by, cross over, to pass time, to
exceed, sin of ignorance, sign of past time.
5% cho' to go, is the radical, the 162nd. The
rest is a suggestive phonetic. See No. 10.
ﬁ_& kua®, A wry mouth, hare lip or cleft palate

It is from O k'ou®, mouth; and
Page-56
46

ﬂ’ '@‘ kua’, Skull and bones, to strip off the flesh, to
R bone, dislocate a skeleton, broken, and so
a defect. * The Z to go, means action and
/3 kua®, defective; defective action is sin
# (W.118 A)

120 :
% chir®, To bind fast, to press tight, urgent, im~

- portant. From
JR ssu, mi*, a silk thread, the 120th radical and
B §3 chiert, firm, solid. To have hold ¥ of one’s
servants [, ch'en’; B a servant bending
before hiis master, the 131st radical. (W.

82 E.)

.

121 Jd, B 7, A form of B or & already. When preceded
by 7 k'0® could, itis equivalent to can be,
A israd. may be. Itis a very ancient primitive re-
presenting  the exhalation of breath, the
virtue of any object, its use, and so use until
exhaustion, to end, to be no more, passed,
already. It is written in four ways in
modern times, & § L. When written
B it means use, by, with, by means. (W.

85 B, F.)

N E ch'en, Sun shining forth, morning.
B Jikt, sun, is the radical, No. 72.
E E cher?, A day, time, the, 161st radical ; 7 to 9
A.M., the heavenly bodies. These are
borrowed wmeanings ; the original means
to be pregnant, a woman who bends for-
ward 'F* jer® to conceal % mien* her preg-
nancy, ‘‘her shame,” says the Shuo Wen.
(W. 30 B.) Purely phonetic here. (See 864)
B;, t$ mien', A woman sitting, — is the girdle, at the
Page-57
47

left is the seat, at the right is an apron
that hides the front of the body, the preg-
nancy, says the Shuo Wen. Therefore the

meaning to hide, conceal. (W. 112 L.)
123

tso®, Yesterday, time past.
jik*, sun, is the radical, the 72nd.
IA. , !q wang®, A primitive meaning to hide, from A
Ju', to enter, and L a hiding place.

,E, % cha', is A plus — which represents an obstacle,
that is, to seek to hide and to be hindered;
therefore the modern meanings of sudden-
1y, hastily, unexpectedly. (W.10 F.)

W yesterday has passed suddenly out of
existence. ’

124
ﬁ hsien*, The glitter 1 of gems, % ; to appear,
‘to manifest ; at once, now.

,:_E,'f yi', a gem, (the radical, No. 96), jade, pearly,
half translucent stones. The character
represents three pieces of jade strung to-
gether, the dot being added to distinguish
it from E wang?® king. (W. 83 A.)

chient, to see; the appearance of. (See No. 85.)

ol '#, eﬁ shik®, Time.

E jik*, sun, is the radical, No. 72.

# ssit', temple, is the conveutional phonetic f_or
the modern writing. =3 chilt' is a small
plant ¥ issuing from the ground —; to
grow, development, continunity. Standing
alone it is borrowed now for the sign of
the genitive or possessive case in the
classic language. < t’sun®, inch, rale,
law. Hence the % ssa' or temple is the
Page-58
lﬁﬁ

place where the law -} is applied con-
stantly ¥. (W. 79 B.)

The ancient writing of B¥ shil?, was ¥,
meaning the time of sprouting of plants
under the influence of the sun, or perhaps
the continuity = 2 of the solar H
periods. (W. 79 B.)

hou', To wait, to expect, to inquire, a time or

period.

A jen?, is the radical, the 9th. The character

was originally written & mcaning a noble-
man, and read hou®.

'ﬁé, ﬁ ]% hou?, The uprightstroke was inserted, some say,

= g o)

to differentiate the meaning of wait, time,
ete. Otherssay it is the archer’s attendant.
The original character is composed of %&
arrow (see No. 100), sticking in the
target above |~ with a man beside it #.
The man is reduced to f and the target
to 2. Shooting at a target was the
means of selecting -officials, for the good
shot must have an upright heart, so the
character means ‘a nobleman. With the
{ reduced to | and ancther { added it

‘means to wait f as a target marker

does. (W. 59 H.)

ming®, bright, the dawn ; evident, open ; intel-

ligent ; illustrious in virtue.

H jit, sun, is the radical; No. 72.
B yiteht, moon (see No. 43.) The sunand the

moon are the two brightest things. The
early seal characterhas the character €3 for
window instead of H sun. Here the idea
Page-59
49

of brightness was from the moon shining
in at the window. (W. 42 C.)

- %, ﬂ“ t'sung®, To follow, obey. A man walking
after another, and often written s to re-
present that idea.

4 ikt is the radical, No. 60. # is two men R
walking £ and stopping it together, ie.,
to follow, obey. (W.27 A.) In the seal
character the # and |t are united into a
# cho', going. See No. 10.

VOCABULARY I OF BALLER'S LESSONS.

129 %ﬂ chi', To remember, being composed of & word,
and @, sclf, succession ; to record ; a sign;
to tell & the succession &, of facts.

%‘ yer', words, is the R., the 149th. (See
No. 10.)

E % TS chi, self, iu the seal writing represents threads
on a loom, two of the warp, horizontal,
and one of the woof, perpendicular ; hence
the meaning of succession ; the 49th R.
[t is borrowed to mean self. (W. 84 A.)

5 ‘[E maz', Remiss, rude ; to treat haughtily ; slow,
easy, sluggish.
'l' 'L‘ hsin', called the shu* hsin', is the radical, No.
61, as the qualities are those of the heart
or mind. cf. # K'uai’, quick, No. 109.
é man® the phonetic, means to draw, extend or
pull out with the hand, long. Fl mao'is a
hat or cap (picture A with a — to re-
present the head). @ & mao', to rush on
Page-60
50

heedlessly or with the eyes covered. The
H is written horizontally to make room
for the # hand, which pulls. - (W, 34 J.)

B E,ﬁ ckang’, Long. The 168th radical, used in
matters relating to hair, as itis a con-
ﬁ traction of £ piao', bushy hair, the 190th
radical. The seal writing shows that it
is hair so long that it must be tied with a
band —, and pinned witha brooch y. It
also means growth to manhood when the
hair is long, and is read chang’, for the
meaning growth. It also had the inverted
man placed below g, to indicate change or
growth. The modern form is an arbltrarv
contraction. (W.113 A)

132
)E tien', A shop, an inn.
yen® A single slopc shed roof, being half
of = mien®, or roof; a declivity or
slope ; the radical of this character, the
53rd; an outhouse or hut. (W.59 L)
(See No. 24.)

é chan', To ask [§ about some enterprise by heat-
ing a tortoise shell p; divination. It is
purely phonetic unless we think that the
diviner lived in a sort of public inn or
shop, and a diviner’s house was one of the
first kinds of shop. (W.56 B.) % has
the saine sense as {§ to usurp or to occupy,
hence well used in J% tien' inn where onc
occupies a room for a consideration.

133
ﬁ lier’, Face.

, jou', Flesh, meat, made up of # pao', a buudie,
Page-61
51

and A strips of dried meat; the 130th
radical and the radical of this character.
(W. 17 G. and 54.) )

ch'ien' All, unanimous, meeting, together.
From A chf®, together, 5% several men and
nn hsiian', clamor. A crowd cannot keep
silent. Suggestive phonetic, for the faces

are the conspicuous feature of a crowd.
(W.14 B.)

S ﬁ. E hi?, A pot, a jug.

j: shih, a s&olar, is the radical, the 33rd, but has
nothing to do with the meanirg, as it is
simply the picture of the cover 4 on a vase
5. - Compare ch’it, % No. 67. (W.38G.)

135
Bﬁ] chiao®, & foot, a base.

m jout, flesh, is the radical, No. 130. See No. 133,
3 ckiteh’, To throw aside, referring to the leg
2 ;gg being thrust back when sitting flat on the
’ ground. Itis composed of P chieh?, the
radical, No. 26 (see No. 42), and 3% ch'u',
to go, reduced from % ch’iac®, the upper
lip or 4 flesh above the O mouth. To
restrain I the desi:»s 3. The character

is still written f. (W. 17 H.)

N @ ch'ing', Light, not heavy. To think lightly of ;
to slight.
$,§ ch'é!, is the radical, (classic chir'), a cart; the
axle | two wheels, — and the body H; itis
set upright in writing to give more room ;
in composition it means to roll, to crush.
It is the 159th radical of characters relat-
ing to veliicles. (W. 167 AJ)
Page-62
gg ching' is a pure phonetic here. It represemts
the streams % flowing under the surface
of the ground —, and.the T is not kung',
but I t'ing’, and is of phonetic force only,
as seen in the seal writing. (W.12 H.)

-4 %,ﬁ kan', The drying effect of the sun, dry, ex-
i hausted, to dry, clean. Adopted as a son
by contract. Read ch’ien’, theclondy sky,
heaven, the powers of nature, father.
1, one, a stem, curved, vapor, is the radical, the
5th. A redundancy, however.
ﬁ'\.? kan' is the sun H penetrating thejungle # and
‘drying up the vapors that were lying low
onthe ground ¥ 5. The lower part of the
#* is suppressed to give place to. the %
vapors. It has the idea of evaporation,
fogs lifting, sun rising, etc. With the
adding of Z to form ¥ ch'ien’, the idea
of rising vapors: is intensified, and the
character means cloudy sky, not the
blue firmament. It is used for kan', dry,
by a license instead of ¥ in which & re-
presents the drving effect. Z of the sun
uwpon dampness. (W. 117 D.)

138
& leng®, Cold, chilly.

v ) ﬁ ping’, To freeze, ice. It represents the crystals
that form on the surface of freezing water.
It is the 15th radical of characters refer-

ring to cold and ice. (W.17 A.)
‘s‘.% ling', A law, an order, to command, your
honored. The seal or evidence of cold is

ice. (W. 14 1. See No. 61.)
Page-63
53

139 #' Jjo', Hot, to warm; fever.
ai J( hud®, fire, is the radical, No. 86. (See No. 47).
o Here written AV to save space.

wd e ﬁ,ﬂ chil?, to grasp, to seize, to hold, to attend to.
It is composed of

$ niek* a man K (changed to 3) who commit-

ted an offence F twice ¥ or repeatedly,

.- ie, a criminal; (¥ jer, is a second

el Ie offence.) (W. 102 F.) and
e 3L chi* to hold, to keep. A picture of a hand ¥

grasping something 1. It is changed
in composition frequently to # and R fL.
(W. 11 E.) Hence the meaning of
chil?, is to sieze M a criminal %, or to
grasp anything. (W.102 G.) Jo'# is
the sensation when you grasp #t fire X.

140 g
% shen', Deep, profound, ardent, intense; deep
. ‘tinted.

IK shup, is the radical, the 85th. (See No. 79.)

%m shen' is the Chinese hearth or stove, or smail
cave-like hole X under the Fettle, (or n
the X’ang') in which the hand § pokes the
fire W. It looks dark and deep, therefore
the meanings deep, profound. The fire
and hand % have been transformed into
% and the dot on the ‘X hstrehi* has heen
arbitrarily omitted by the scribes. Com-
bined with ¥ water it means deep; com-
bined with ¥ hand, it means to fathom,
or probe # t'an. (W. 126 B.)

i ﬁ shih', Moist, wet, damp, low lying ground.
dejected.
Page-64
54

Ea

143 %}ﬁ

7}( shuf’, water, is'the radical, the 85th. (See

No. 79.)

ﬁ hsien®, Two silk threads %% exposed to the sun

h

A where they .become visible ; so, to be
visible, to appear, remarkable, evident,
bright. The bottom of the character is
contracted from ) to.». (W. 92 E.)

The water 7K appears % in a wet place i§.

‘In another writing # the H isreplaced by

— and the/ by + #'u*, giving the mean-
ing of the earth } where water & ap-
pears #& (W. 92 E.)

kao', Lofty, high, eminent, noble, high priced,

excellent.

The 189th radical. In composition it
is variously contracted, overturned and
mingled with other elements. It re-
presents a high pavilion ¥ on a lofty
foundation [J, and with a hall @ where
the people sit. (W. 75 B.) See No.'98.

taf’, A girdle, a sash, belt, zone ; to take along

with one as if worn at the girdle, to bring,
to take, to lead, together with. It repre-
sents a belt — with trinkets hanging from
it v, and the robes falling below T one
over the other. The lower part is made
up of two chin i characters one outside
the other. Chin' I is a handkerchief sus-
pended from a girdle, the two ends hang-
ing down, the 1 also meaning suspension.
It is radical No. 50, relating to cloth.
(W. 35 A, and W. 24 Q.) M chin'is the
radical of this character.
Page-65
55

144 ﬁ @ K'uan', Large, broad ; gentle, to forhear, slow,
" to enlarge.
»*» mien’, roof, is the radical, No. 40. (See No. 1.)
ﬁ' E huan' A chamois with slender horns, + =
kuat', (W. 103 C.) R repiesents the head,
legs, and tail, (often omitted). % may
mean broad becatise a spacious enclosure is
needed for the breeding of these wild
animals. (W. 106 D.)

145
%, @ chai®, Narrow, contracted, the opposite of

Fuan'; narrow-minded.

IR hsiiel® cave, is the radical, No. 116. (See No.
97.)

,r‘-: cha', Toenter a hiding place and be hindered,i.c.,
crouching. Therefore we have % &, crouch—~
ing down in a ’X cave, 4% narrow. (W. 37
G, and 10 F.) (See No. 123 for cha')

. i ,é tsow?, To walk, to travel, to hasten, to depart.
‘é The 156th radical. The seal character

above represents a man bending over to

walk rapidly X, and therefore means to

bend. The part underneath is It chif’, a

foot at rest, or to stop; hence the combina~

tion may mean to bend the leg and to stop,

ie., to walk. Williams. (W. 112 A, D.)

b m, xﬁ ﬂ.'mg‘, To put out to pasture, to let go, to put;
loosen, liberate, to set free, disorderly.

i. ﬁ p'u' to tap, to strike, oversee, is the radical,

No. 66. A hand with a stick. (W.43D.)

ﬁ . H; fang’, A square, an open space, the 70th radi~

cal. Two boats lashed together forming a
Page-66
148 %

149113

150&

square. The % indicates that they are cut
apart' and allowed ,to proceed ‘on their
several ways: (W. 117 A.)

chiung’, To converse together, to preach, to

explain.

-% yer’, is the radical, the 149th.
#.g kou' is a graphic representation of the timbers

in the roof and framework of a Chinese
building ; hence its meaning of a network,
a setting in order, a combination. Com-
bined with & it means setting words
in order i#, i.., to explain, to converse.
Compare # wood K set in order, the truss
of a roof. (W.104 B.) Tuan shih’s Shuo
Wen says this character represents a net-
work of irrigating ditches.

tso', To act, to do, to make; to arise; to

appear; to arouse. It refers to doing
things, while f# refers more to making
things.

A Jjen®, man, is the radical, the 9th.
cha', Suddenly, to excite. (See No. 123.) No

etymology is given for k.

chiu', To assist, to rescue, to save from wrong.
i p'a' to tap, is the radical, the 66th. (See No.

147.)

*, a& ch’ii, to ask, is the phonetic. Its meaning of

to ask, pray, is found in the supposed
custom of offering sacrifice and taking the
skin of the offering in the hand, to present
with é‘he petition. The character repre-
Page-67
57

.sents the hand § holding the tail or skiu
R (W.45 K2)

151
ﬁ P'u', A shop. Correctly written 4§ with 4
chin' for the radical.

%.% she*, tongue, is the radical, the 135th. A pic-
ture of the tongue protruding from the
mouth. (W. 102 C.) (See No. 73.) It
is, however, really composed of & she’

ﬁ, ﬁ (See No. 40), cottage, and W fi’ as a pure
phonetic. # is aptitude | yung* (an arrow
hitting a target) for founding a family,
manhood, and then, the name assumed at
manhood or given by a friend. (W. 109
D)

152
g ko', Older brother.
B #ou?, mouth, is the radical, No. 30.

_q_g ko', To send forth a breathing 7~ of approba=
tion from the mouth. Doubled it mecans
to sing. It is borrowed for brother.
When the lower stroke 7§ is curved the
other way, it is acry, or difficult breath-
ing. See No. 258. (W. 58 1)

153
%, % t*, Younger brother.
¥} kung', bow, is the radical, (the 57th) according

to Kang Hsi's arbitrary classification.
But see No. 86 for the primitive form and
etymology. (W.87E.)

154
%, g chik', A hand S holding a single bird 4&, not a
pair as id 8 shuang'; hence the meaning
single, one by itsélf, a numerative, of
Page-68
&8

ships, animals, birds, single individuats of
things in pairs or sets, as arm, eve, shoe,
ete. (W.168G.)

E, E chui* short-tailed birds, is the radical, No.
% 172. ‘The scal forms show it to be a pic-
ture of a bird with a short tail, cf. & niac®,
2 B bird with a long tail. (W. 168 A.) (See

No. 41.)

e *T ta’, To strike, to beat ; doing in general.

% shou’, hand, here called the t'i* show?, is the
" radical, No. 64.

T ting', a nail (a picture) is that which the hand
F. strikes. Therefore the hand and the
nail togéther form the verb to strike (the
subject and the object of the verb). (W.

57 A.) Read ting' it means to nail.

L % hst*, To wash. The radical is 7k shui®, water.
(See No. 79.) In order to wash B you
must first % have water K. (For hsien'
4k see No. 27.) )

N E wang®, To forget. iy hsin', heart, is the radi-
cal, No. 61.
W\ & wang’ to enter A a hiding place L to hide ; to
perish, to run away, to cease. (W.10 E.)
The mind ;) ceases to act @5, that is, for-
gets &,

158 .
ﬁE ver’, Eyc, a hole.
mut', eye, is the radical, No. 109. (See No. 102.)

E, E g. ken' firm, is a suggestive phonetic'. It is the
138th R. meaning also, perverse, obstinate,
to stop. Itis from H mu', eye, and & hua'
Page-69
159 Hﬁ

lﬁﬂﬁ

161 ﬁ

59

to turn, change suddenly (a man A invert-
ed k) as the eye change$ in anger; there-
fore anger, defiance, haughtily, ete. (W.
26 L.) It isin theeyc that anger may

- fiist be seen in another person; hence the

use of B in the character for eye.

‘cb_in‘,éf‘. The iris of the eye, the pupil ; some say

the eyeball.

H mu'sis the radical, No. 109. (See'No. 102.)
ﬁ .ﬁ. ch’ing', The first of the five colors, the color of

nature, as the green of sprouting plants,
the blue of the sky, the azure of the ocean,
dark green, and black. (See No. 63.)
The black # part of the eye is the pupil
5 or the iris.

tiao’, A twig; a bill; a classifier of long,

slender things.

7k mu', wood, is the radical, No. 75.
yu“to ford, is a man A crossing water (veduc-

ed tofl ), and tapping with a stick & to
sound the depth. It was borrowed to
mean a relative pronoun, and equivalent
in wen li, of Bf so® a place. In f the A
character may have been added because
the pole used in sounding was of wood,
and so the meaning of twig, slender, etc.,
came naturally by extension. (W.12C.)
A slender stick fi of wood 7 is used by a.
man who fords & the stream.

chieh', A street, avenue ; place of markets.
hsing?, to go, is the radical, No. 144. It re-

presents two footprints, one step with the
left 4 ch'ih' and one with the right
Page-70
50

ch’e! (the reverse of 7). 47 hsing®is the
radical of characters relating to motion,
the phonetic being inserted in the middle.
(W.63 C.)

% kuer', Lands, feudal appanages; from + ¢,
soil, doubled. By extension it is used of
the sceptres or batons given the nobles
when they were invested with theirfief.
(W.81 B))

162
g‘g shuang', A pair, a match; an equal; to go

with, to be matched.

Z chui' birds, is the radical, No. 172. (See No.
154.) Twa birds 4 held in one hand X
make a pair 8. (W.168 G.)

hsiel?, Shoes ; also written .
§'$ ko® To skin, to skin an officer, or degrade him
from office, leather. It represents the
skin of a sheep Y (contracted from %)
stretchied between two bars = with two
hands € at work on it to scrape off the
. wool. Radical No. 177. (W. 105 A.)

£ kuei' is the phonetic. (See No.161.) Leather
¥ next to the land sk kues', is 2 proper

sign for shoes, .

163

BALLER, LESSON VI.

s ng If, An act, particularly acts of worship, which
will bring happiness; ceremony, propricty,
good manners; offerings required by
usage.

* 7R shil', is the radical, No. 113, written j in
’ composition. It means a revelation (ans-
picious or unlucky) from heaven. The
Page-71
61

two horizontal lines are the old form of k
shang*, high, superior; and the /b repre-
sents sun, moon and stars, or signs in
heaven which reveal transcendent things
to men. ) !

%g Ii*A vessel used in sacrificing. From ¥ tou'

lﬁﬁ

% % sha'

1* Shears, representing the cutting blades.

(see No. 105), a vessel, and L} K’an’, a
receptacle above it, ornamented with two
sprays $# feng', symbol of plenty. (W.
97 B.)

Revelation 57 is needed in abundance # to
teach how to worship .

sha', To mow grass; to cut, shear, slay, kill.

ﬁ‘ shu' the right hand making a jerky motion, to

> R
*ﬁ shi?, Millet, the glutinous kind with loose

166 IE,I‘

BN

strike, a stick, kill, is the radical, No. 79.
(See No. 71.) (W.22D.)
, to shear off the heads of grain, to kill.

drooping heads, the seal character being
a picture of it.  (Also another writing is
a hand separating three grains, hence
glutinous millet, requiring effort to se-
parate.) One dotis omitted in the modern
writing . So we have for sha' &, to cut
off X the heads of the millet #, and for
the whole # sha!, the addition of the
radical gives the strong motion of strik-
ing, intensifying the idea of to kill. (W.
39 B and 45 J.)

cheng', Upright, correct, exact. proper, ortho-

dox, etc.
Page-72
62
chil?, is the radical, No, 77. (See Nos. 10 and
12.) To stop it at the appointed Limit —
withoat going astray is correct . (W.
112 A, and L)

1 #, g ch’un’, Spring, plcasant, wanton, lewd.
H Jjik', isthe radical, No. 72. The seal writing
has been strangely modified by moderns.
It represents the budding and growth i of
plants ¥ under the influence of the sun g.
(W. 47 P.)

= E, EE hsia', Summer, variegated, large. The first
great dynasty.
x chib** to follow, is the radical, No. 34.
E yeh* A man, head. A man H who walks &
with his hands hanging down folded
© as farmers do in sammer ¥ when
the crops grow by themselves. In the
modern character H is contracted. (W.
160 D.)

169
ﬂ** ch’ia', Autumn, harvest.

*‘ * ho*, grain (growing) (a picture), is the radical,
No. 115.

}(» X hud®, fire (picture) is the 86th radical. There-
fore autumn #X is the season when the
grain XK standing in the fields, is burned
K, i.e,, whitened and ripe (W. 121 C.)

170
%, & tung', The last or winter season ; the end ; to
store up.
‘/ ping, ice (picture, see No. 138) is the radical,
- No. 15.
M FR chung' End, fixed. (To be distinguished from

o
Page-73
63

radicals 34 X chih®,. 35 X sui', 36 # hsr*,
and 66 X p'u’.) It is a skein of thread
fastened at the end by a spindle or tie.
The frozen V end X of the year is the
winter season, &. An older form had sun
B meaning the eessation of the action of

-Q the sun; or it might mean the sun con-
fined. (W.17 F.)

171
§ chi*, Tender, the youngest of brothers, the end
of a series of months or a season ; the four
seasons.

? tzif, son, is the radical, No. 39.

* ho? is contracted from # chih', the most deli-
cate H among the children F, ie., the
last; then the last month of a season,
and the season itself & (W. 94 A.)

172 ﬂﬁ .
Ia', To dry meat, the 12th month; winter sol-
stice.
H,[ZE] jou', meat (see No. 133) is the radical, No.
130.
8, & lick Hairy, bristly, disorderly. It is a hairy
& head B4, hsin' and R shi rat, contract-
ed into M. It has the legs, head whiskers
and tail of a rodent. (W. 40 B, C.)

. ﬁ, % yeh', Night.
&) hsi* evening (sce No. 14) is the radical, No. 36.
The seal form shows that it means what
is done by man X at evening #, that is,
to lie down on his side ~, and sleep ; then
by extension, nighti.. The modern form is
a guaint invention of the scribes, a man A
under a cover . at evening &. (W. 60 L)
Page-74
64
174 j:L\ t’ai*, To carry on a pole, to elevate.
o - shou’, hand, is the radical, No. 64.
g & t’ar’, A mouth O exhaling a breath /. This is
- an arbitrary contraction for the form &
which is a high place # with the topmost
point . changed to -t and ¥ chik* (under-
neath in place of 1), birds alighting there.
{See No. 88) ; to elevate. (W. 75 B.)

. Bﬁ. ﬁ K ai', To open, to begin ; to boil.
r men®, two-leaved door is the radical, No.-169,
:H— kung® Two hands folded, the 55th radical. The
character represents two hands 3 taking
away the bar — from the door, that is,
opening it. cf. PYf shuarn', bolt. (W.115C.)

e ’}\, Ik\ shao’, Few ; shao*, young.
2™ Bsiao’, small, is the radical, No. 42.
J plieh* Aleft stroke, to diminish. To diminish
/ that which is already small /4 ; few,
less. (W. 18 M.)

i ﬁ chung®, A bell, a clock.

4> chin', metal, is the R. No. 167. (See No. 13.)
g i t'ung’, A boy under 15 and wunmarried, a
- spinster. It was originally a slave boy,
like 3 ch'iel', a slave girl. [t.is from ¥
hsin', crime, and & chung’, grave. A grave
crime committed by parents caused the
children to be reduced to slavery. The
slaves were forced to remain unmarried,
and so the meaning spinster, bachelor,
virgin, and then concnbine and catamite,
for they were used as such. A slave might

be beaten just as a bell. (W. 120 K.)
Page-75
65

178 & tier®, A black spot, a point, to punctuate, to
light, as a lamp; to count or check off, ap
hour of time.

%, &. hei*; black, soot, is the radical, the 203rd. The

soot B which the fires #% leave around

the vent VY where the smoke escapes. The

% is a contraction of % yen®’. (W.40D.)

|-5 chan', To ask @1 a diviner |, to divine, Itis
purely phonetic. (See No, 132.)

. ﬁ' tung*, To move, excite, to begin.
jl 5 1%, Strength, muscle. . A picture of a muscle in
its sheath. It is the radical of the charac—
ter, No. 19. (W. 53 A).
¥ chung', Heavy. (See No. 22). (W.120K.)
When force j7 is exerted on heavy things
i, they move %).

189 Z“ ko', To cut, to carve; a quarter of an hour.
7). tac, the Rad., No. 18, a knife.
z % hai* purely phonetic, an horary character, 9—
’ 11 p.v. Itis a picture of a pig, & shib®
181 with a tail added.  W. 69 K.)
5)’ )A\ fer', To divide, distingnish, a minute. Fen,
! duty, share.
7] tao, knife, 1s the radical, the 18th,
A pa’, To divide.
A knife 7] that divides A = % to divide.

. i @ piao*, The outside, to make known, to mani~-
' ‘Q fest; a watch, indicator. .
j{ #, clothes, is the R., the 145th.
mao®, Skins, furs, hair. Clothes were originally
skins with the hair outside, therefore this
character means the outside of clothes, the
Page-76
183

 

 

 

 

184 g’ g

manifestation of ‘the person, tirerefore,
to manifest #. A watch manifests the
time. (W. 16 K.) The emperor dressed
his huntsmen in different kinds of skin
% to indicate % their functions in the
chase.

chien', A space, interval, division of a house.
F‘j men?, door, is the R., No. 169. [ has the sun
B shining through the opening, therefore
the meaning, space, interval. See No. 5
and 12,

to', Many, much, too much, reduplication.

9, 9 hsi* evening, is the R., the 36th. Because eusy

185 'f%

lsﬁﬁg

to write it was repcated for the meaning
many. Perhaps it means many, like the,
cvenings that follow one another withont
ceasing. (W. 64 A, E.)

tsan” 1, we. 7To' tsan when, sometimes
written M.

N jer?, is the radical ; Il K'ou® is the radical when
written .

ﬁ' tsan’ 1, we, is an arbitrary modern abbrevia-
tion for 3 which is %E tsan' doubled, mean-
ing a brooch or hairpin and B yiieh added,
meaning to murmur, % (W. 26 D.)

how', After, behind, to postpone ; posterity.
/f cl®ih* a step, to march, is the R., the 60th.
%, vao' A fine thiead. (See No. 8 and 24.)
To march F while stretching a fine thread
X out behind. The & chik’. to follow is
Page-77
67

a radical redundancy as it also means to
go. (W.90 A.)

i :
ti*, The earth, the ground, a place.
j: t'’, earth, is the R., the 32nd.
‘HL ieh’, Also, se¢e No. 4.

188
#, ﬂ pai*, To worship, pay respect to vither man or
God.

5—]:‘- shoi’, hand, is the R., No. 64. The rest of the
character ¥ is also shou® F and hsia’, F.

F It was formerly written with the hsia* F
under both hands % meaning both hands
hanging down, in the attitude of respect,
or worship. (W.48 E.)

18 “
° Hm shang?, Noontide, midday.
B 7ib*, sun, is the R., the 72nd.

l"] ©) hstang. is a picture of a small north window
under the eaves of the house 4 ; by éxten-
sion it means, direction, to face; to like,
to favor. (W.36 E) -

When the sun H faces fi the south window
it is midday ffy.

— !F'¢ wi?, 11 aarn to 1 e, noon; 7th of the 12
’ stems.

* shit?, ten is the R., the 24th.
ﬁFlé _Some say this is the representation of a
noon mark on the side or end of a housc.
In combinations it has the sense of defi-
nite, fixed, exact as in # hsi’, to promise,
# wu’ obstinate, ete.

191 .
E.B 7, Already, past, to cease, to decline.
Page-78
E g chi®, self, is the R., the 49th. The original

writing of this character @ B8 is now
found in four forms B LB Y. Itisa
very ancient symbol, to represent the
exhalations of the breath, the virtue that
springs from an objcct, its action, its use,
then, use until exhaustion, to end, to. pass
away. cf. & {fl ‘& (W.85B.)

192
E tso', A raised seat, throme, numerative of

mountains, cities, houses.

r yen® covering, shelter, shed, is the R., the 53rd.
4 ge tso*, To sit down, to rest, to place; to reign.

103 R &

Itis two men 4% seated, facing each other,
on the ground *. (See No. 66.)

The radical I' indicates larger things, or
men sitting in a house, so a, seat . (W.
27D.)

eng?®, A city, a city wall.

4t is the R., the 32nd.

1B e

eng®, is made from a T a nail, a boy and
a battle axe j§ wu'in which § ko' is the
radical. When a boy T is big enough to
wield a battle axe he is grown up or com-
pleted, a man, ie. ch'eng® ting', & T.
The character means, completed, to he-
come, to finish. When earth * is built
into a city wall #% it has attained & to
its highest usefulness. (W. 71 M.)

194
#_ gﬂ feng', A fief, a territory; to appoint to office

S ts'

over a fief; to seal up, to blockade, to.
stamp, an envelope.
un', inch, is the R., the 41st. (See No. 69.)
Page-79
69

i kuef', is, according to the seal character, the
land + and crops W under the rule ~f
of a landlord, that is a fief. Such is the
Chinese explanation. Wieger considers it
erroneons. He thinks it a tree } ona
mound 3 in the eenter to indieate the feu-
datory or imperial possession of the land.
s} added indicates rule. (W. 79 E.)

N E, "g hsin', Faith, sincerity, to believe in; a letter §
Rv arsenic.
A Jer?, is the radical. A man A standing beside
his word &, that is, faithful. - Some an-
cient forms are a man and mouth; also a
heart and a word ; that is words coming
from the heart, sincere. (W. 25 H.)

BALLER, LESSON VIIL

i ﬁ ﬁ tsai®, Repeated, a second time, also.

? [} chiung’ a limit, is the radical according to the
dictionaries, the 13th. But etymologi~
cally it is

m liang® a welghmg instrument or scale in equili-
brium and — erh', two, added to indicate
a second weighing or repetition, twice,
cte. (W.35].)

1= a Igﬁ sui', Year, harvest, age; Jupiter, the planet
) that indicated whether an attack was to
be made or not.

_[I: chil?, stop, is the R. of the dictionaries, the
77th, but the combination #is from % pu*

a step, a planet, and <
Fg Asii* which is a spear J§ wu* and its wound —.
The lower part of the pu* % is enclosed in
Page-80
70

the M hsi', at the bottom. Jupiter’s
period of twelve years was a cyclical
period used by the Chinese and called a
great year X #&. It jwas later adapted
to the twelve months and used commonly
for a year. (W.71P.)

ﬁ'_ ﬁ pu', A step. It is composed of Ik to stop and
the same reversed underneath with the
opposite meaning, to start. A step %, is
the starting %, and stopping 1t of the
feet in walking. (W.112F.)

198 m shu®, To count, shu* a number.

i p'u' to tap, to govern, is the radical, the 66th,
referring perhaps to the habit of men to
check off with the finger as they count.

gﬁ lou* Troublesome, frequent, and so appropriate
in the character meaning to count off. It
is composed of % ni} women s chung'
enclosed in f wu* the women’s prison, and
so has the meaning, idle, useless, trouble-
some, repetitious, frequent. (W. 67 N.)
# shu' meant originally to govern ¥ these
women prisoners ¥%.

i % teng’, To compare, an order, series, class;
such, like ; to wait.
HY chu?, bamboo, is the R., the 118th, see No. 7
and cf. 35 ti* No. 86.
i‘{: ssu', Temple, the place where the rule ~}+is con-
stantly applied 4+ ¥ and people are
classed. (See No.125.)

200
ﬂ ts'u', Coarse, rough, vulgar.
K m#, rice, is the R., the 119th. (See No. 47)
Page-81
Zﬂl'm, %&

a

ﬁlsu’ (archaic for chieh®) is a picture of a

stool 1 chi® with two rungs=to brace
the legs and standing on the ground—.
It was berrowed for the important con-
junction, and, moreover. (W.20D.) See
No. 228 on #l as a character showing
contrast.

hsi', Fine, small ; soft ; carefully.
S ssu, or mi*a strong thread, is the R., the 120th.

(See No. 8.)

m t'ier?, field, was originaliy written g1 hsin' or

skull open above, meaning the fontanelles
of a child, tender ; so appropriate for, fine,
tender #, like the silky # hair around the
fontanelles [&.

202
¥ Q&_ sheng*, Wise, holy, sacred. (W.81H.,)
E erh’, ear, is the R., the 128th, a picture. (W.

L}

203 =

146 A)

!% g_ ch’eng?, To speak 1 k'ou®, while standing in

B

=

tsao®,
i cho* or tsou® chik', to arrive at, is the R., the

ones placce of office £ ¢'ing* (a man A at
his place on the ground )Y thercfore
£ cheng® means to lay before ones
superior, to notify.

I A sheng jen®, or wise men, ar¢ those
who listen F to the [1 information of those
under them in office £ and so become
wise. (W 81 H.) For % see No. 22.

To build, to create.
162nd. From this meaning, to arrive at,

the meaning to accomplish, to build 3 is
derived and the % kao* is purely phonetic.
Page-82
T2

-%'%. kao!, Toimpeach, to indict ; thatis, to do with
the mouth O what the ox 4 does with
his horns. By extension it means to tell.
(W. 132 B.)

= ﬁ huan®, Also, yet, still more, to give back.
. _ho* to go is the R., the 162nd.

%' % huar® The eye H, ho_rizontal, and ¥ ydam’,
trailing robes, that hinder ones walk, a
Hiesitating gait and timid look.

ﬁ,i yiian® is made up of & /' a long robe and

ﬁ, § ch'uan' To attach, to trail, being a picturg of
an ox yoked up and attached by a single
traee to a ring. (W.91 E. H.)

205 ﬁ‘, %‘ . kuei*, Honorable, costly, dear.

E pei*, cowries, precious things, is the R., the
154th. Itis a picture of the cowrie shells
with feelers out. They were used for
money down to 300 B.C. and then brass
representations of them were nsed. (W.
161 A))

—"1* K'ui* a basket, is a picture. (W. 111 A, B.)
A basket . full of cowries H is a high
price, dear.

0
s ﬂ; hsing’, A surname of a clan.

ﬁ nii®, woman, is the R., the 38th and #4: sheng’,
“born. Woman born,—possibly this dates
to the time when “mens’ mothers were
known but not their fathers” and so the
woman gave the name to the clan or
family. (See No. 15.)

7 3
3 % ;g- huang®, Yellow, the color of loess. 201st R.,
formed of
Page-83
73

[ tier’, field, 102nd radical, (a picture of fur-
rowed fields) and of an old form of kuang’
¥ light, (a man A carrying a torch %).
¥ huang®is the yellow light % from the
fields M. (W.171 Aand 149 A and No. 696)

208
E. e pai®, White; in vain. Radical No. 106. The
seal character represents the sun just
appearing above the horizon and so
the white light at dawn. (W.88 A.) (Sec
No. 6.)

209
%,% lao’, Venerable, old, very. 125th radical. A
mau A whose hair £ mao® changes i,
hua' to white. (See No.20.) The £ and
A are contracted arbitrarily by the
modern scribes. (W. 30 D, E.)

210 I g B s

chi, Lord, master, owner. It is a picture of
a lamp and the flame rising above it. So
by extension 2 man who spreads light, a
lord. The prince rises above other mnen
and is seen by all as the flame rises above
+he lamp and shines out to all. (W. 4 B.
and 83 D.)

chu® a dot is the R., the 3rd

211
mﬂhﬁ pi‘ Rags, unworthy, mean.

u' to tap is the R., the 66th.

m p] Broken shreds of cloth
The whole is a piece of cloth ifi separated
or riddled »\ with'holes /\ by the action
of tapping £. (W.35F.)

a2 g S o i
B 'fl nan?, Male of the human species ; a son.
m Pien?, the land, is the R., the 102nd.
Page-84
213 E

. jlm It*, Muscle, strength, a picture of a muscle and
its sheath. The 19th radical.
The man % is the one who exerts his
strength J7.in the field @. (W.53.C.)

ch?, To arrange, to narrate, disposition.

% ssu, silk is the R., the 120th, see No. 8.

=2 chi®, self, the 49th radical, is a picture of the
threads of a weft above and of one thread
in the shuttle below ; so sorting out and
arranging threads ; borrowed for self.

ﬁ chi', as a whole is to sort % threads 4.
(W.84A) )

24 g
ﬁ.g&,# 12!, To shoot an arrow, to send forth, any

215 m

. expansion or manifestation.
R ww po* Separation ; trampling ; back to back. It
is two 1t chib® characters back to back.
It is the R., the 105th.

% kung', bow, is the 57th radical and the % shu',
to kill, was formerly written % shih®
arrow, so the character meant to separate
# the arrow & from the bow § ie. to
shoot. (W. 112 H.)

Kuat', A piece, lump.
:I: i, earth, is the R., the 32nd ; see No. 13.

3 g, kueF, devil, spirit of a dead iman, the 194th
& rad. The g represents the spirits head, the
JL is man and the [, is a tail or the swirl
where the demon vanishes. Purely

phonetic here. (W. 40 C.)
A .person becomes a spirit § after the
body has stiffened in death and when the
Page-85
15

carth - becomes stiff and hard it breaks
up into clods or pieces .

216 ﬁ
wer', Seat, throne, condition, dignity, a person.
jen®, man is the R., the 9th.
ﬁ,ﬁ I*, To establish, to stand. A picture of a man

standing firm on the ground.
The place, fi (office, dignity) where a man
A stands erect 3 ; the place assigned to
each official.

i ) m ti', The Supreme Ruler, the sovereign.
m chirt, is the R., the 50th. It'is doubled to re-
present the skirts hanging from the girdle.
Cf. No. 143 .
The ancient character represented a man
clad in many garments and designated by
ﬁ% — meaning k above. The sctibes added:
two arms. Li* Ssuchanged thebottom into
IR t'zd, thorns, and then it was contract-
ed into the modern form. (W.120 H.)

BALLER, LESSON VIIL

- ﬁ' é chen', True, truly, gennine; rectitude snperior
to the common ; perfect simplicity.

H mu', eye, is the radical of classification, No.
109, but the charactgr is made up of the
following :—

ﬁ chil?, straight, (see No. 99) rectitude ;

v hua' to change; a man tumbled licels over
head ;

JC wd', a high platform or base.

In the combination the + shik® at the top
of the character # chih® is replaced by the
& hua* and the top linc of the JL wu' at-
Page-86
%

the bottom is combined with the lower
stroke L of the chik® ifi. The logic of
the combination is that moral rectitude
i chil? acquired by a change g hua'and
raising JU wu* of the moral nature is true,
genuine ¥ chen'. (W.10L.)

N ﬁ ting’, The top, very; the button on a man-
darin’s hat.

E yeh', man, the head, is the radical, the 181st,
see No. 105.

T, m ting', A nail, (picture). Itis of phonetic force.
But the button on a mandarin’s hat called
H# ting® tad, looks like the head of a
Chinese nail and as though it were nailed '
into the hat or head.

= E, M mar', to sell, to betray, to vaunt.

B pef, cowrie, precious, is the radical, the 154th

as in ® ma#, see No. 38.
L= i, The springing of plants, to put forth.

E maf®, to buy. Therefore ¥ mar*, to sell, is the
opposite of & in that it consists in putting
out {#f goods, and netting or obtaining
PXl the cowrie money H pei!. (W. 78 E
and 161 D.)

221
% ) @ chia', Home, family, a profession or class.

s mien® a roof, or house, is the rad., the 40th.

% shib® Pigs, the 152nd, radical.
‘The scal character of 100 B.C. shows that
it is a picture of a pig, the upper line for
the head, the left side showing the helly
and legs, the right side the back and tail.
Page-87
= o

223 1&

10

77

It is suggested that when placed under a
#» roof, it . means % family because pigs
and dogs lived in the house with the
family. (W.69 A.) But earlier forms of
% show various objects under the roof
~s. One of the earliest is three people
under a roof, for a man, woman and
child make a home. Chalfant XIX.

ts’o*, In disorder, wrong, mistaken ; to polish ;

a polishing stone, a file.

& chin', metal, is the radical, the 167th. (See No.

13.)

= % hsi' Old, ancient, formerly. Dried meats.

It is formed of # contracted from the seal
form #; representing strips of meat hung
up to dry and B jih*sun. So the mean-
ing is old, dried meat as compared with
fresh meat. (W.17].) Old #metal &,
scrapped, makes a most disorderly place.

hen', Very.

4 chik* a step, is the radical, the 60th. In the

other writing J& the radical is ¥ or X
ch'iian’, dog (classical) the 94th radical;
 is the forn used in combinations.

R, E, E ken* is composed of H mu*eyve and g hua', to

turn or change; so B ken'is to turn or
change the’eye H, looking in anger, de-
fiance; stubborn, hard. (W.26 B & L.)
It seems of phonetic force only in & hen',
In the second writing one might say “a,
dog’s R defiance, or obstinacy in holding
on is very J# extreme.
Page-88
3
MR IR

225 m,m

" 8

p'’%, Skin, leather, bark, wrapping, the case

around goods or the tare; the 107th R.

The seal form shows it to be a primitive
meaning to skin, representing the skin )
ahand ) and a knife D. (W. 43 H.)

vung', To hit the centre, to use, with, by. It

is the 101st radical. It is from the samne
form as s chung' which also meant to hit
the target and an — 1 showing the part of
the arrow that did not go througﬂ. By
extension the capacity of the archer, the
effect, the use, the means. (W. 109 B.)

keng', To change, keng*, much.
El yiieh, to speak,'i§ the radical, the 73rd. This

is by convention in the dictionaries. It is
really formed of the following, according
to the Shuo' Wen:

T, M ping’, Fire, calasity, bright.. A firein a Louse

227 W

with flames rising above the roof.

§ p'u* To tap, to interfere with the hand holding

a stick:

Therefore 3 keng®, change, may repre-
sent fire on the hearth. - Fixing the fire &.
on the hearth, the coais were covered' by
ashes; the change is great. (W. 41 A)

shen®, Spirits, animal spirits, gods.

3R shil', to reveal, is the K., the 113th, used in

characters denoting spiritual things. It
is formed of = erh = E shang' heaven
and /» = the sun, moon and stars, or
signs in the heavens which reveal trans-
cendental things to men.
Page-89
79

E,qi shen', To extend, to streteh, to explain. The

2.4

“HRA

seal writing shows two hands stretching
a rope and so the idea of stretching, ex-
pansion. Later the ropc was straightened
by the seribes and.was explained as a
man standing and with both hands 3
girding his body | with a sash. The form
u1 is simply an easier way of writing Y.
(W. 50 C.) The combination jifiis proba-
bly phonetic but the idea of god may have
somie cqnuection with an increased or
extended #1 spiritual revelation 5%. Chal-
fant, however, finds éarly forms represent-
ing forked lighting. . He thinks, probably

- rightly, that these became the sign for

deity from superstitious dread of light-
ning 7§ tien'. It gradually took the form
i and 5k was added to distinguish the
meaning of God ji, and F y&#° rain, was
added to show the meaning lightning €.
(Plates VII and XXVI.)

K'en’, To be flexible, pliant, willing, to assent.

H.PJ, @ jou', the flesh as opposed to the skeleton

A jout,is the R., the 130th. (See No.133.)
In early writings of # Ken’ the & kua’,
skeleton, was at the top of the character.
As this forms the character for bone
% ku® the upper part /& was replaced
by i and thus the etymology is lost.
The flesh is soft and pliable as compared
to the bones @ (changed to it) and hence
the derived mecanings to yield ones sclf, to
be compliant, to assent. (W.65 A, C.)
Page-90
= {5

zaoe

231 ,ﬁ

In #8 t'su’, we have anothér example of
two objects of opposite characteristics
joined to represent the adjective applying
to onc of them i.e. i ¢'su' coarse is K fine
grains and a large object, a heavy two
runged stool H. (No. 200.)

chia®, False, to borrow, chia®leave of absence.

N Jer®,

is the radical, the 9th.

Ei Es ch.ia“, False, to borrow. The seal writing

shows two — skins J, that is, double skin,
or a borrowed skin over ones true skin,
disguise, false. ** Wolf in sheep’s clothing.”
(W.43 L) The character for shrimp #,
hsia', uses this suggestive phonetic. It
sheds onc skin gradually while growing
another.

hui*, To meet, to collect, a processicn, a

society, able.

El yiieh' to speak, is the radical, the 73rd. (See

AN\ chi®

No. 9.)
(o collect, (see No. 18.)

g- tseng' To add, still more. The words B

vielt', that people say when they meet A
ch® at the fire under the smoke hole |
ch’uang®, in greeting or J\ in parting, ie.
adding morc and more. The A pa' at the
top is modified in the combination with
A chi* to form & hai'. (W.14 D and W.
40D.)

shik®, To cause ; to order, to send, a messenger.

N

is the rad., the 9th, with 3 /i* an officer.
Page-91
81

g shik* A hand 2 grasping a stylus, see No.
96 ; a historian, scholar.

ﬁ I#*, Those of the scholars 2 who were set over
— (= .E) the administration.
The meanings of # shib® come from the
uniting of A man and Bf the superior
official of government. (W. 43 M.)

232
8&;& ch’iang?, Strong, firm, determined, good read
ch'iang?, to force, to rob. -

;g % kung?, a bow, is the radical, the 57th, a picturée.
As the character 3 ch’iang® was originally
written g, it meant a bow & that shoots
over two fields and their boundaries B
chiang', that is, a strong bow, and by
extension, good, firm, determined. Being
hard to write the 8 chiang’,was replaced
by #, an insect that bendslike a bow and
springs into the air when it falls on its
back. I changed to g was the head of
the insect.

H},, 9 ch’ung® aninsect, in the seal writing represents
a snake, probably the cobra, called Aur,
now written Jif. It is the 142nd radical
and used for # ch’ung®, which anciently
meant animals with legs, but now means
the smaller animals, as frogs, worms,
snails, insects. (W. 110 B.)

3 ﬁ plen®, A tub, bowl, basin.
I, Jg, miz’, a dish, is the R., the 108th, a picture.
fen!, to dlvxde, is the phonetic. (See No. 181.)

e ;& ﬁ\ fir!, Husband, man, workman.
4 K ta', great, (in composition, man) is the R., the
Page-92
37th. It has a stroke added in % fir', to
represent ‘the pin'in the hair used only
when, gtown to manhood at the age of
twenty, the boy took a cap, and received
an honorable name as well as used a hair-
pin. (W.60].)

- ﬂ ping®, A cake, pastry.
shil?, to eat, food ; ssu® to feed, to réar, is the
R., the 184th, of characters relating to
food. (See No. 75.)

;f- # pmg‘ The seal represents two men marching
side by side, or on a level #f ch’ien', there-
fore the meaning even, together, harmony.

ﬁ ch'ien' is two poised scales, or shields side by
side, even, level. Ping' is phonetic, but
cooked grains & united A form cakes §, 2
logical combination.” (W. 115 B.)

a5 ﬂ ho? A box or dish, with a cover.
Il mir®, dish, is the R., the 108th.
A ho?, Shut Athe mouth [O; join, unite. (See No.
103.) So & ho'is a covered dish,—join &
the dish [ and its cover.

= % ha, A child, F tzef, is the R. (SeeNow 1)
*. % hai*is pure phonetic. Tt is the 12th of the
twelve stems ; 10th of the horary cycle ie
9 to 11 p.w. The 10th month. It is said |
to be a picture of the pig with tail added.
(W. 69 K-)

238
ﬁ p'ar’, A plate, tray.
min®, dish is the R., the 108th.
ﬂ pan', To make a boat # move along bya
Page-93
83

regular action % of the oars; so the de-
rived meanings of regular way, manner,
equally. Plates resemble little boats.

ﬁ},g chou', A boat, (picture showing the mgh bow
the deck, compartments, rudder and an
oar.). Itis the 137th R. of characters re~
lating to ships. (W. 66 A.)

ﬂ,§ shu' is the right hand % making a jerky
motion JL or a rhythmical motion, then,
to kill, to strike. The 79th R. (See No.
71) (W.22 A.D.)

2 ﬁ par®, A board, flattened bamboo.
mu', wood, is the R., the 75th.
J far, To turd’ over, inversion. (See No. 75.)
A suggestive phonetic, as a board is flat
like a hand.

‘S ﬁ teng', A long bench, a stool. )
AN mut, wood, is the R., the 75th. (See No. 22.)
% teng®, A stool or bench. This is composed of

JUi chi, a stool, the 16th radical (picture) and
& ﬁ teng', to ascend, advance, at once. This is
! from the radical » po* (See No. 214) to
ascend step by step, and a pedestal & tou'.

(See No. 105.) (W. 112 H.)

241
m tan', But, only. A is the radical, the 9th.
_e_ B tan', The morning, dawn, daylight. It repre-
i sents the sun B just above the horizon —.

In {8 it is of phonetic force only. It is one
of the few indicative characters.

242 ﬁ char®, A classifier of lamps ; a shallow cup.
m min®, a dish, is the R., the 108th.
Page-94
§ % chien’ To destroy, narrow, small. (See No.
2 13), A small 2 dish Jf is a shallow cup
#. Thus it is a suggestive phonetic.

k- ﬁ teng', Alamp. K huo, fire, is the'R., the 86th.
(See No. 169.)

% XF teng', Toascend, to elevate. (See No. 214 and

i 240.) This is a suggestive phonetic for to

clevate % fire %k is a good designation
for a lamp #.

2 'B mao’, A hat, or head covering, to rush on,

rash.
l"E Ih chin', a napkin, is the R., the 50th.

B ﬁ mao', a hat, is the original writing for §g§. It
is a F] mao® (to cover [} chiung’ some-
thing—) and —indicating the head within.
The modern writers change F to ™ and
H so that it cannot be distinguished from
B yieh without reference to the seal
character.

E' rg' mao?, to rush on, heedless, to act. with the eye
H covered H, is a natural meaning for the
character. ZETar#. (W.34])

BALLER, LESSON IX.

~ % chang®, An account, a bill.

R pei*, cowrie, precious, is the R., the 154th.
(See No. 38.)

E chang®, to grow, senior, is a phonetic and also
the 168th R. (See No. 131.)
A long or growing £ list of preciops
things § is a J8 chang'. The character
is a modern invention to take the place of
Page-95
85

¥, the radical B being more appropriate
to the meaning than .

246
% chad®, To seek, to find, to pay a balance.

=F shou, hand is the R,, the 64th.

X ko', A spear or halberd. (See No. 2 R, from

which ‘the character must be distin-
guished.)
The seeking in mind by the inventors of
this character must have been a search for
an enemy, with spear % inhand F. TItis
often used now for seeking a man in the
spirit of revenge.

= ﬁ, g suan’, To reckon, calculate, to plan.

h’r‘lﬂ‘ chu®, bamboo, is the radical, No. 118, because

E the abacus, upon which mathematical cal-
culations. are made is made of bamboo
often, H is a primitive, a picture of the
abacus, which is called 5% suan' p'ar’.

H ] kang* The hands held up side by side as in
presenting anything to another person.
Here it is the two hands £ working on
the abacus g which is made of bamboo ¥
and so # means to cipher. (W. 47 G.)
J kung® is the 55th radical. In combina-
tion it is modified in several ways as ~f in
® tsun'; /\ in K ping'; X in B chi' and

Hin H.
e % chieh!, To borrow, to lend. A jen® is theR.,
9th.
ﬂ ‘H‘ hsi* Old, purely phonetic here, (See No. 222.)
= ﬁ t'ung’, Brass. & chin' is the R., No. 167. (See

No. 13.)
Page-96
ﬁ) t'ung®, With, together, like. Phonetic. Itis [J
mao’ a cover fitted to the 1 mouth of a
vase, thus meaning agreement, union, to—
gether ete.  (W. 34 L)

. ﬁ, ‘2\ chiao®, An animal’s horn, a projecting corner, a
pod; a dime, a quarter. Itis the 148th
radical. It is a picture of a striated horn
and is also said to be a combination of
strong Jy /i*and flesh W jou*. (W.142B.)

251 .

huan', To change about with the hand, remove,

m to exchange. The R. is # #'i* shou’, the
64th.

ﬁ, ﬁ huan* To be on the watch for, to examine. It
is from two hands £ (contracted to Xk)
and a contraction of & cl’iung?® which is
a man A standing at the door of a cave X
hsiieh?, peering out H, with a stick in his
hand &=31%, thatis, to watch, or examine,
Thus # means passing an object from
hand g to hand Y while examining it %
to avoid deception in the exchange. It is
now written with another hand added as
a radical #%, the hand of the other man.
(W.37F.)

o ﬁ pu", To repair, to mend ; to patch, to substitute.
* 2% 1, clothes, is the R., the 145th. (See No. 51.)

Fﬁ- a fi To begin, great, just now, an honorific

’ name. Itis capacity Jj for founding and

governing a family, manhood, the age at

which .an honorary name was given to a

‘man. Phonetic combination. (W, 109 D.)
Page-97
87

253 # . yang®, The ocean, foreign, European, vast.

‘/Jk shuf®, water, is the radical, the 85th.

X % rang’, A sheep, a goat. It is a picture ofa
ram seen from above with horns, legs and
tail. The tail is often left off in combina~-
tions to make room. Phonetic combina~
tion. (W.103 A.)

254
EE, * mao®, Hair, fur, plumage, (Picture). The 82nd
radical. (W.100 A.)

255
%—‘i‘., %’ P'iao', A signal, a ticket, a warrant, a bank-
g{g note. For a mnemonic take ‘“a bankbill
& T is afWestern 7 revelation 5% . Thisis

untrue however.

7 shib',a revelation, is the R., the 113. (Se¢ No.
164.) Etymologically however the 5% is a
modification of the seal writing of X firé,
0, Chalfant Pl. X shows a beautiful ori-
gin of the character in a fire & with smoke
rising from it and manipulated by four
hands fA. This was an ancient method of
signalling. The seal writing of 100 A.D.
is explained as being an ignis fatuus
K kue’ huo’, below is the fire W, on top,
the head and hands @1 and the linc in the
middle — is the waist. Comparé % No.
16. (W.500.)

. Hi f%‘ shik*, Market place, a market.
I'I] chin', a handkerchief, is the R., the 50th (See
No. 143), a mistake etymologically. The
seal shows that it is a broad place I'7
chiung® outside the town, overgrown with
Page-98
grass ¥ chik', where people go to get T
what they want. (W.34D.)
n chiung®, an open space a limit, is the 13th R.
&z chi®, To reach to, to get. (W.19 D.)

&7 E ti*, Base, foundation, low, to settle ; bottom.
)'“ yer® a shed, hut, is the R., the 53rd. (SeeNo.
132.)

&. g t%, The rest of the character is a development
S of K shil', (See No. 8), a floating plant
that branches on the surface of the water
and sends a root down to the bottom.
A line is added below to represent the bot-
tom of the water. So the meaning to sink,
the bottom. (W. 114 A.B.)
E t# with the & yen® radical means the
foundation, base, of a house etc. K.

258!
‘% hao', To cry out, an order, a signal ; a mark,
a label ; honorary name.

JB. 1§ hu tiger, is the R., the 141st. This is a pic-
ture representing the stripes on the tiger’s
skin. (W.135 A.)

7 ch'iao® Difficult breathing, sobbing. It repre-
sents the breath § fighting against an
obstacle — (cf. 7 No.152.) The Shuo Wen

. says. SGKEFH LBER —d T —RE.
¥ hao' is the mouth [ sending forth cries inter-
-rupted by sobs F. (W.58-A, B.) ROET
LR,

R ﬁ b, a tiger, is J§ hu' with feet like 2 man’s JL
jer?, added below. This character enters
into several compounds meaning cries,
clamor. Thus both sides of the % hao'
mean outery.
Page-99
89

259 % ting', An ingot of silver.
chin', metal, isthe R., the 167th. (See No. 13.)
im ting, To. fix, to settle, certain, quiet. It is
order IE cheng* (See No. 12) in the housé
+ mien® (seé No. 1) i.e. peace, quiet. (W.
112 1) An ingot of silver §& is therefore
a fixed or certain & lump of metal 4.
0 ¥ h {2, Rule, law, model ; means.
¥ . 7K shu?, water, is the R., the 85th. (See No. 79.)
3 ch'i*, To go, to remove. (See No. 67.)
The far fetched mnemonic has been sug-
gested “the law, or a model ¥ f2° is
intended to raise the moral level, as water
7K, by removing 3% vices.”
Historically the ancient character for #
f2* was written £ which means A chi®
to adapt IE cheng' rightly, that is law,
rule.

261
m ma", Weights for mouey or goods, wharf.
E shil?, stone, is the R., the 112th. (See No. 42.)
5B, 5. ma’, horse, is the phonetic. The seal writing
shows the head turned backwards, the
mane, legs and tail. Itis the 187th R.
(W.137 A.)

- E chia®, The value of a thing, the price.
4 )  jer?, man is the R., the 9th.
A E chia®, kua® A shopman, as distinguished from a
! travelling merchant % shang®; from B pei*
precious things under a canopy [ hsia*.
i, ) hsia* A cover, a canopy. The 146th R., often
confused with % hsi* West. (W. 41 C.)
Page-100
263 j_ﬁ 7—5 yiian®, Head, principal, origin. It is made up
’ of =, or .k, and )L jen® man. That which
is upon k man )i, the head. JLis the R,

the 10th.

261
ﬁ pad’, A gem, a coin, precious, valuable.
¥ mien?, house, is the R,, the 40th. (See No. 1.)
—fﬁ@ fou® Earthenware vessels in general, the pic-
ture of a covered vessel ; the 121st R. (W.
130 C)

pao’, is to have E yi', gems or jade, i fou*
earthenware and F pes money in the »
house. These were the ancient valuables,

(W. 130 D.)

2 ﬁ yin®, Silver. & chin'is the R., the 167th (See
No. 13.)
B ken* anger, hard, firm, is the phonetic. (See
No. 223.) Silver & is hard B metal &.

266
tiao', To suspend, a string of 1000 cash.

q—‘; g o K or®, mouth, is the R., the 30th.

’ ‘When written # it means, to condole, and
5 kung' bow is the R., the 57th. Itisa
man A with a bow over his shoulder, com-
ing to help keep the birds and heasts away
from the corpse which was exposed to rot.
Hence the meaning of to condole. The
Mongols still expose, but do not keep
away the beasts and birds. The meaning
to suspend comes from the fact that the
bow was slung over the shoulder. (W.
28 H.)

267 )
’ E‘J fu*, To aid; a duplicate, an alternate, a pair.
Page-101
91

7] tact, knife, is the R., the 18th. (See No. 37.)
E fi*, abundance, happiness is from #§ kao''(con-
tracted) and @ ticn® fields; the heaping
up # of the products of the fields H, i.e.
abundance, prosperity 5.
A knife J1 cuts off from ones abundant
stores B to help ®. (W.75D.)

268 e
ZF, 'F p'ing®, Free expausion on all sides ; plane, even,
level ; tranquil. '
kan', arms, crime, is the R., the 51st; (See No_
110.) This is arbitrary classification, for
the seal writing shows it to be F yi*, the
breath 9 hao' overcoming the obstacle —
and spreading out freely above —. In'Z
the symbol A pa‘to divide, adds to the
idea of free expansion on both sides. (W.
58 F.)

BALLER, LESSON X.

269
?E haf®, The sea, an arm of the ocean ; lake, an
expanse, as a desert, ¥, 7k shui® is the R.,
the 85th. (See No. 79.)
!ﬁjg, é me#, Each, every. These are borrowed mean-
ings, as originally it meant swarming,
being a combination of »~ or W ch'e* a
sprout, and  mu® mother,
ﬂ,'ﬁ" mu®, Mother. This is from % nif’ female, with
the breasts made prominent. (W. 67 O, P.)

 

m % tu', tou', All, the whole ; the capital.
R,E& # city, is the R., the 168rd, (Sce No. 11).
ﬁ g." che®, Phrase, speech, document; sign of end of
a paragraph ; after other parts of speech
it changes them into nouns. This charac-
Page-102
92

ter was invented to represent a connec-
tion between members of a text: above
are two crossed branches to represent the
preceding members; in the middle a W=§
tzut, from, represents the point already
arrived at, the starting point for what
follows ; and the 7] at the reader’s right is
the continuation of the discourse. (W. 159
A, B.)

b ug ho', To drink ; to shout.
[ Kou®, mouth, is the R., the 30th.
B, % ho® A stranger or beggar #5J kai* who speals,
B yiieh', to ask the way or beg; to ask, "
how ? where? why? (W.73 A.)
ﬁ,'@ kai*, To beg, a beggar. A wanderer ] who
% seeks to enter A ju' a refuge L. The %
formerly stood at the side, now it covers
the . (W. 10 G.) cf. No. 145 /¢ cha*.

N % 3 ko', Each, every, all, various ; apart.

o kou® mouth, is the radical, the 3oth, It repre-
sents a person following and calling for®
help. ) Doy

% ko* means to go on ones way 7 without
heeding the calls O or advice of others
following, -, therefore, apart, separate,
each. (W, 31B.) ’

273
e B it Tolove, delight in. 4> hsin' is the R., the
61st. It is formed of B ai* to love and
- & sui* to go slowly.
;ﬂ‘:%.ﬁ chi* The upper part of the character % is
strangely contracted from 3 ch, to
Page-103
93

breathe in, to swallow. The meaning
comes from reversing

R,ﬁ ch'ient, to breathe out, to be lacking, as both

BRa
B

are made up of = and Ji jer’, the § being
areverse of & ch'ien. Both are synonyms
of & ch'i* breath. % is the 71st R. Joined
with ;% it forms

To swallow 36 down in one’s heart ;i ; to
take into one’s heart, to love, kindness.

" The radical X sui' to walk is added to

form 3% ar®, primitively meaning the same
as the radical X but now used exclusively
" in the meaning to love. It suggests that
*love is an outgoing virtue. (W. 99 E, F.)

o % pan', To exert ones strength; to manage, to

I,

arrange.
strength, is the R., the 19th, (See No. 212.)
n', Bitter, punishment, criminal, the 160th

hsil
¥§ R. It is made up of F kan' (see No. 110.)

ii;; o

to offend;, with two v dots indicating a
repeated offence, and =1 shang' a su-
perior; that is an offence against a
superior; a crime brings punishment,
bitterness.

n', Two criminals facing and mutually ac-

cusing one another ; passionate recrimina~
tion. (W.102 H.)
When the Jj I strength of the official is
interposed between the two parties accus-
ing each other in court we have manage-
ment, to manage, to arrange, ##; or each
criminal in such a recrimination exerts all
his strength 7. .
Page-104
94

275 jl'—i chan', To stand ; a stage in a journey, 60 to
90 I
SE AT 7 to stand is the R., the 117th. (See No. 216).
It is a picture of a man A standingon the
ground—. (W. 60 H.)
chan', to consult O the diviner p, is the pho-
netic, chan' to seize, invade. (See No.
132.)

. i Kao*, To be close to; to mutually oppose,
lean on; to trust. It is from % kao' to
tell, inform and 3k fei* not. Thatis to in-
form of non-agreement, ie. to oppose,
and so to be opposite to, and then to
be unext to, to rely on. For % see
No. 203.

#,iﬁ fei', A primitive with two sides opposite to
each other and so the abstract notion of
opposition, negation, wrong, not. It
gives $ its nicaning of opposition and the
idea of nearness is related to that of op-
position, (note that the idea of opposition
is in % also). It is the 175th R. (W.
170 A.)

< ﬁ ts'ar’, Adverb of time, now, present, just now.
R ssid, mi, is the R., the 120th, commonly called’
m' ﬁ#ﬁ Ian* chiao® ssit'.
% g ch'an® rodents, or gnawing animals, crafty.
1t is the pictures of two rodents ; the one
E % above is £ cl'ao* an animal like the hare
g but larger, (a useless character); the one
helow is
ﬁ‘ E t'u', A hare. It is a picture of the hare squat-
. ting, with tail perked up. (W, 106 C.)
Page-105
9%

278 % nf*, Interrogative and emphatic particle, twit-

tering sound.

A Ko, mouth, is the R., the 30th.
E R{ ni*, To stop; a nun; ni* near, familiar. Phone-

tic force only.

It is formed of two men in contact, one
seated P shih', the 44th R. and one
reversed, & prf. (W. 26 F.)

= % % Ia*, A road, a way ; a kind.
4 2 ﬁ tsu?, The foot, a picture of a foot at rest, the

circle above indicating rest as opposed to
motion ; enough, full, pure. It-is the R.
the 157th. (W. 112 B) of. it chilf see
No. 10. Motion is expressed by 8.

4% ko', Bach. (See No. 272.)

The way B I, is that through which each
one & ko' goes 2 tsu’. (W.31B.)’

238 . :
mi’é, .'x, fE kuang', Light, bright ; honor, nakesi, smooth ;

281

the presence of a distinguished person.
Anciently it was twenty Y fires k. The
modern form is a man JL bearing aloft a
fire or torch K. Ji- s the R. (W. 24 J)

ts'a*, Vegetables, herbs, greens, food, vianda.

g ts’ao?, is the R., the 140th.
5&' % ts'ai®, To pick flowers or fruits; variegated ;

to gather objects. The upper part is
chao®,’the contracted modern form of @
the right hand prone or reaching down,
the paws, claws. Normally at the top of
a character because of its meaning and
here it is above a tree & meaning to pick-
Page-106
86

A& fruit from a tree k. Tt is often written
with a hand at the side 3. With grass
radical it means the small vegetables, .
(W. 49 B.) :

- g ch'®, To rise, to begin ; after a verb an auxi-
liary denoting the beginning and continu-
ance of the action.

£ tsou®, to walk, is the R., the 156th (See No.
146) . .
TY chi®, self, is the phonetlc. (See No. 191.)

283 % yang*, A pattern, kind, model, manner.
mu', wood, is the R., the 75th, as patterns
are often made of wood. The character
has the same meaning and pronunciation
without the R.

i‘ﬁ yang®, A rising or unceasing flow of water
(same as jk yung® with ¥ yang® added
as phonetic) ; uniformity, model, pattern,
tediousness.

73(, lm yung®, is unceasing flow of water in veins in
the earth, duration, perpetuity. It isa
variation of 7k shuf’, adding foam and
ripples. (W.125D.)

$ yang®, Sheep, (see No. 258). (W, 103 A.)

e ﬁ_ ﬁ h & yi?, Fish, the 195th R., relating to names and
parts of fish. It is a picture of head,
body, fins, scales and tail. The four dots
below stand not only for fire % but also
for tail, and feet in j5 miac® bird, K ma®
horse, % kao! lamb B wei* monkey. (W.
142 A))
Page-107
97

285 ﬁ mar’, Steamed bread or dumplings.
shik®, food, to eat, to feed, is the R., the
a2 184th. (See No. 75). (W. 26 M.)
- g\ § man® Long. g resembles closely hooded heads.
(See No. 130) (W. 33 J.)

. m Iung®, To grasp, to collect; to push out, a
comb.
*.* shor’, hand is the R., the 64th.
ﬁ.gé, ﬁ Iung®, A dragon, imperial, gioricus, the 212th
R., contracted from a picture of the
animal. The modern form has on the
iﬁ right a contraction of & fe', to fly, or the
wings (picture of a crane flying W. 11 A.)
and on the left at the bottom is A= jou*
meat or body, and above it 3y I, said
to be a contraction of § t'ung®, slave boy,
as phonetic. 7Thisis probably an artificia]
interpretation of a conventional modifica-
tion of the picture.” (W.140 A.) #iisa
hand F on a dragon #, able to grasp or
gather together legs, wings, tail and all.
Phonetic.

. ﬁ ssung’, To collect and tie up in a bundle; to
sum up to unite ; to comprise, to manage ;
before a negative it makes a strong as-
sertion.

% mi*, called % 4% lan' chiao® ssu', is the radical,
the 120th.

,g,& ts'ung' To feel alarm ; excited, restless. When
ones mind i is -excited or restless, one
looks anxiously through the windows Bl
ch’uang’, and makes a forecast of pro-
Page-108
98

bable outcome: now written #. (W.
40 D.) Phonetic combination.

N ﬂi su', To tell, acense.  F yen?, words, is the R,,
the 149th.,
X }ﬁ, ‘% ch’ih* To attack ; a modern abbreviation of
J% to attack a man ¥ 7, in his house
i ven®; to expel, to scold.

.3 # is said by the Shuo Wen to be F kan', an
offence doubled, though not completely,
and so having the idea of repeated offence
asin ¥ jer’, See No. 139. (W.102D.)
i su' is to attack Jf with words .

i &]‘ ting', A nail ; ting®, to nail.
ét chin’, metal, is the R., the 167th, being the
material of which the nail is. made. (See
‘No. 13.)
T ting', A nail with large head, (W. 57 A.)

— % t'w?, To go on foot; foot soldier ; disciple, ap-
prentice ; companion ; a low fellow ; only,
fatile ; to banish.

/,f cl’'ib' to walk, called ¢ shuang 5y Ii* A jed',
is the R. in the dictionaries, the 60th ; but
originally it was Z ¢ho', the character
being written 3k Later the ji. chil® was
moved over under the 3- £'u* (See No. 10.)
To go Z on the ground %, is the etymo-
logy of $t. (W. 112 E.)

291 % B § sher', The body, the trunk ; ones self ; person-
al; pregnant ; the whole life; the 158th
R., used in characters relating to the body.
The seal form is‘a human figure with
Page-109
99

targe abdomen and one leg forward to
support the body more firmly, or preserve
the equilibrium.

Attention is called to other forms of the
character A jer. 4 jer’, erect; K pf, to
turn; / v J on the top of compounds;
JL /\ the legs, at the bottom of com-
pounds ; F* jer?, leaning or bent over; K
¥ hua' heels over head, to change; P
shib?, a seated man, a corpse; *J @ pao’,
a man leaning forward to enfold an object
in his apron ; &k ta' man with arms; A &
X forms of men moving on with hind-
rances of three forms. (W. Lessons 25-32
54, 60, 61.)

e % t'’%, The body, the whole person; a class or
body of officers etc.; the substance;
respectable; a style of writing Chinese
characters, of which there are six.

. ﬁ‘ ku®, bones is the R., the 188th ; a framework.
It is made up of skeleton [ kua® and flesh
A= jou* opposed to each other, (See #H
Ker® No. 228.) (W.118 A.)

= g it A vessel used in sacrificing. (See No. 164.)
(W. 97 B.)

b ﬁ tsen, How? Why ? j% hsin'is the R. For %
cha* see No. 145 -and 271.
The surprised /g heart asks how? why? /8.
Page-110
160
VOCABULARY 1I OF BALLER'S LESSONS.

294
ﬁ yen®, Salt.

I Radical No. 197. Rock salt; salt land;
rude. Composed of F=F West and %
four grains of salt, as rock salt comes from
the West. (See No. 26).

K ﬂ chien', To watch, prison. The § is a suggestive
phonetic (W. 82 F.)—as the Chou Dynasty
(1122 to 255 B.C.) appointed officers to
have control of salt and salt lands. The
chier! is B ch’en® (see No. 120) and reclin-
ing man 4+, which means to recline or bend'
over, and fii 3 hsiieh, a vessel of blood.
One explanation of this phonetic is'as fol-
lews:—in ancient times an oath was
taken by having the contracting parties
draw blood and an official watch it flow
together in a vessel. When the radical for
salt and is added the idea is conveyed
that salt‘is watched over by those who
have been appointed to this work.

295
% chuj, Pig.
ﬁz ﬁ ch‘iian® Radical No. 94, a dog.

This is a modern character and is made
up of the above radical and & che®, (See
No. 270) which is here a simple phonetic.

- Z"’] kou®, Dog.

/h‘,z R chtiian® Radical No. 94 3, %, a dog:
45] chi, or kou', sentence, (See No. 80) is a sug-
. gestive phonetic, as the dog guards by
his bark. This is a modern character.
Page-111
B

101

kua', To suspend ; anxious; classifier of bridles.
show®, Radical No. 64 ; hand.

.tl' $prkua', The 3 is a combination of £ kuef,

L

sceptre, (See No. 161) and p pi, (See No.
14) and it means to divine ; or a diagram.
(W. 56 E.) s is said to represent an hex~
agram and thus it has no connection with
the jade sceptre, but as the writing of the
two are identical, it is classed under scep~
tre 3. If we suppose that the charts or
diagrams of the diviners were hung up
then we may regard this as a suggestive
phonetic.

ch’angt, To sing.

[ k‘ou®, Radical No. 30, mouth.

88

299 ﬁ

ch'ang', The phonetic; splendid; (W. 73 A).

The upper part is the sun and the lower
is to speak, emanation. The idea is that
the sun sends forth rays as the mouth
puts forth words,—a suggestive phonetie.
"8 A more refined quality of voice than
ordinary conversation.

tsang‘, Dirty.
Ii*, Radical No. 188, a bone. (See No. 292).

ﬁyﬁ. tsang’, to bury, is a suggestive phone-

3. AN

tic. What could be more loathsome than
a body after mortification is well estab-
lished and the bones appearing? It is
composed of # ts'ac’ grass, (See No. 40)
and 3§ szua®, to die, which is composed of
H, tal, calamity and A jerf, man; the
calamity which comes to all men—
Page-112
102

o g

death. (W. 26 H.) The present writing
of man in this part of the phoneticis un-
fortunate as it has but slight resemblance
to A. Beneath is Ji* a contraction of my
grass. The dead were tied up in a reed
mat §§. The — is the rope.

ch’i?, To ride horseback ; to sit astride.
E ma,’ Radical No. 187, ahorse. (See No. 261).

ﬁ. E- ch'’, The phonetic; (See No. 54) wondertul,

Wlﬁ

strange. This phoneticis also used in the
character for chair. A chair #is used for
sitting on; in riding a horse, onme sits
on the horse as he would sit on a
chair, and in the character for riding %
radical K, wood, is'replaced by the horse
radical. There are not a few characters
that-have a similarity of action that are
formed as the above by a change of
radical.

el’iung? Poor, thoroughly exhausted.
R, hsiieh’, Radical No. 116, a cave. (See No. 97).

Caves are used by those who are reduced
to the last extremity.

55,48, §2 kung', The phonetic, (W. 90-L); to bend the

|

body forward and cause the vertebrae
to stand out. The character was formerly
written with 2 Ii® on the right, but
7 kung', a bow has been substituted for
I the back bone. This is not abad com-
bination to stand for poor.

Kung', Empty, leisure ; the firmaient.
R hsiieh*, Radical No. 116, a.cave (See No. 97).
Page-113
103

I kung', ‘The phonetic is T. labor, (See No. 89).
This character may have been originally
used for caves made by man; a place made
empty by T labor. (W.82A.)

303
ﬁ hsien*, Thread.

% mi', Radical No. 120 but commonly called Jan*
chiao® ssi’ ; silk. (See No. 8).
The phonetic is 2% chien' small, narrow.
(See No. 13). Thread is made of minute
strands of silk.

N }E, ﬁn ssi’, To die; death ; firm ; closed.

5 tar’, Radical No. 78, bones fallen apart;
death ; bad, perverse.

B jen®, Man inverted.
This is an old character which came into
existence before radicals and phonetics
were adopted, hence when we say that
the radical is F tai® there is no discre-
pancy, but when we say that the phone-
tic is A jer® it is a misnomer as A has
no phonetic value. (W. 26.H). (SeeNo.
299). Death % is the calamity % that
comes to man .

o ﬁ chet!, A needle, a pin, a probe.
%‘. 4> chin', Radical No. 167, gold, metal. (See No.
13).

ﬁ chent', is the correct writing of this character,
but 4t chen' is shorter and is very often
used.

ﬁ, ﬁ% hsien®, The phonetic of the correct writing is.
to bite, to wound with the mouth. &
. hsii' is to wonnd—with a weapon IR ; with
Page-114
104

306

%
&

the addition of 11 k’ou’® to the above, the
character means to wound by biting. (W.
71 P.) The needle takes up as it were,
little mouthfulls of cloth as if biting its
way along. There is no etymology for the
short way of writing this character.

. man®, Full ; complete ; pride ; Manchu people.
7]‘ ¥ shui®, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
ﬁ ﬁ man® The phonetic, is # equality, equilibrium,

(W. 35. M.) The scale pans f are even;
when the water is even with the brim of
the vessel, then it is full. (See No. 35).

The upper part of this phouetic is, by
some, stupposed to be horns, to indicate
equality, as the two horns arec apt to be’
similar. By others it is supposed tobe a
beam which indicates when the two scale

pans are level.
a

chi’, Chicken.
4E chui Radical 172, a short tailed bird. (Sec

No. 21). -

E niac®, Radical 196, a long tailed.bird.

The phonetic is & hs’, a woman con-
demned to spinning in. official prisons.
The top is K chao’, hand ; the center of
the character is % silk, contracted, and
the lower part is X ta',. an adult. Some
think thatit was not X ta* originally but
/I the lower part of %, and the /A was
changed to k ta'. R The hand working at
spinning, a spinster. These women were
condemned tothis work, and consequently
got no benefit from their labor. The
Page-115
R

105

great bulk of the eggs that chickens lay
goes to their owners, thus the appropri-
ateness of this phonetic. (W. 92, C.)

t'iek’, Iron.
’%f chin', Radical 167, gold or metal. (See No. 13).

ﬁ ﬁ% tich' The phonetic ; to scrape, to pick.

"R

310 )E, ‘E\

This comes from B ch'eng’, to speak O
while standing at one’s post £ ; with the
addition of % ko' it is read tieh’, to notify
in a menacing manner ; with the addition
of & ta* man, now reduced to 4 shik?® it
means to scrape or pick or stab. The
metal with which one can scrape or stab
best is iron, hence the appropriateness of
the phonetic. (W. 81. H).

ch’in', near, a relative ; self.
chien, Radical 147 ; to see; perceive.
% chen', The phonetic, now reduced to # ; hazel.

Hazel shrubs grow in clumps, this charac-
ter is used for those persons which one
sees constartly :—those in the same
tamily, relatives. (W. 102 H.).

kuar', An official, public.
+xa mier® Radical 40, aroof. (See No. 1).

Thisis an old character which does not
conform to rules governing phonetics. The
lower part of the character is B tuf', ter-
races, ramparts, city. The  hall of the
B city. It originally referred to the resi-
dence of the official who governed a city.
Now it stands for the officer. (W. 86. C:).
The top stroke is left off from the B.
Page-116
106

311 ﬁ . tar', To wear, as hat or spectacles, to bear.

jﬁ ko', Radical 62, a spear. (See No. 2).
This is an old character and the radical
and phonetic are not separable. The

=% foundation of the character is % ts'af,
to do damage with a spear. The + shib®
is a contraction of ¥ t'sa, property or
materials ; % (W. 71. H.), to plunder with
the use of weapouns.

B & # To disagree, different, (W. 47.R.). The B
t'ien® is a ‘modification of @ fu*, devil's
head, but here used for the earnest money
which is placed on a table JL wu*, hands #,
F3 are represented as pushing the money
away, it is not acceptable. The character
# is explained thus. After a place is plun-
dered the maraunders divide the spoils
according to the number of men, the
articles are placed in order, one by one
on the several piles ; thus the idea of plac-
ing on, as the hat is placed on the head is,
conveyed.

818 % feng®, To sew ; feng’, a crack, seam.
% 8 mi, Radical 120, silk. (See No. 8).

g feng®, The phonetic, means to pick ones way (to
walk slowly) X through 3 feng', brush-
wood, te meet. (W.97.A.). The i_ cho'
is a redundancy, as & sui' conveys theidea
of walking. When silk is added to this
phonctic the idea is that this silk thread,
threads its way through the cloth as a
man picks his way through brushwood.
Page-117
313

i

314 m

TEIS

316 W

107

fut, R.ic'h, abundant, wealth.
r*+ mien® Radical 40, a roof. (See No. 1.
g 1u’, This phonetic seems to be a contraction

of & kao' on M t'ien’. The meaning is
that the products of the W ¢jen?, field are
piled high, # kao', under cover ,= mien’;
abundance. (W.75.D). (See 267.)

ken', A root, origin, a base, as of a wall.
mu', Radical 75, wood.
f E ken* Phonetic ; perverse. (See 223).

Wood added to this phonetxc is the char-
acter for root. The root is firmly fixed in
the ground.

ching*, Clean, pure ; to cleanse ; only.

/ 7}( shui’, Radical 85, water.

ho,

The phonetic is & cheng’, to pull in differ-
ent directions, to contend. The upper
part is JK chao® the lower partis a § hand
holding a stick, the two hands are pulling
the stick in opposite directions. (W. 49.
D.). In order to cleanse an article, it
must go through what appears to he an
active struggle with water.

A river.

¥ shuf, Radical 85, water.

--Iko,

The ph(met:c. (See 54). The idea of
this phonetic is that the breath leaves
the mouth without meeting obstruc~
tion. With the addition of y the idea is
that the current is unobstructed, a river
flows, but the water of a pond is hemmed
in on all sides.
Page-118
108

RS,

3118 %

319 ﬁ

Bl

B
iR

1u', Father.

This character is the 88th radical.
The seal character is: a hand holding a
rod, the hand which wields authority.
The modern writing failed in bringing out
this idea (W. 43 G.)

chia*, Frame, staging, a rédt, to support.
7'( mutt, Radical 75, wood.
m chia®, Phonetic ; to add to. To-add jm muscle

7 to persuasion {1, violence. Muscle is
5 71 It*, 0 Kou' indicates a command.
(W.53. D.). When wood & is added to
this phonetic it indicates that this is a'
frame on which articles can be added.

liang*, A classifier of carriages,—a pair of

wheels, the important part of a cart.

ﬁ- ch'e!, Radical 159, a cart, a barrow.
Tjﬁ liang’, The phonetic; two, (See No. 35.).

This is. an appropriate phonetic as the
two wheels of a cart should be a pair,
equal in size. With the addition of the
cart radieal the numerafive of carts is
completed.

Ii*, A donkey.
ma’®, Radical 187, a horse. (See No. 261).
Ia* The phoneti¢; a hound. This phonetic

might have been selected as a donkey
is small and not very different in size
from a large hound. This phonetic also
means a vessel or pan. It is from R
hut and & tzii® a vase. Thisis now made
like M t'jer?, a field, but it has nothing in
Page-119
109

common with it. [l min’, added later,

is a redundancy. (W. 135. D.) and
(W. 150 A).

321
%. * ch’eng’, To ride, to mount, to drive.
' p'ieh', Radical 4, a stroke to the left.
This is a character which does not dividé
into radical and phonetic. It is a pic-
torial representation of a war chariot in
the seal writing (W. 31. B.) ft=4} ck'uan®
represents men sitting back to back. The
chariot has an awning over the men. A
good symbol for riding or mounting.

822 ﬁ chiao*, A sedan, chair.
ﬁ ch'e’, Radical 159, a cart, a barrow.

ﬁ % ch'iac®, Phonetic ; something high, as a. tree,
i the top. of which bends forwards. (W.

75. B.). Itis composed of
x ﬁ yao', and # kao'. Yao' X is a man bending
his head forward getting ready to jump.
(W. 61 B.). & ch'iac®is the phonetic in
bridge, # and as a sedan chair when
carried looks like a moving bridge, this
may be the reason for using this phonetic

in sedan chair.

 

BALLER, LESSON XI.

B kb, ““ pr, ;1‘0 compare.

This character is radical No. 81.
Two men standing together as if compar- .
ing heights. (W. 27.L).

324
R, ﬁ chi®, To reach to, to come up to.
Page-120
110

R yu', Radical 29, the right hand.
The part of this character which is not
the radical is A jen’, man. When the
radical is added it indicates that a hand
has caught up with the man ahd has laid
hold of him. (W. 19. D.). This charac-
ter has no connection with J% na#*, but.

s iu], ﬁu i, Like,' as.
jt i, Radical 38, a woman.
[} Kou’, mouth, is the phonetic. (See No. 10.).
(W. 67 D)., To speak [ Koif, likea
woman %, that is, appropriately to the
circumstances.

326 'ﬁ tsui®, A bird’s bill, the mouth.
1 Kou®, Radical 30, the mouth. .
% % tsui® The phonetic is $§ tsuf®, egret of a heron.
‘ (W. 142 B.). Ji this % horn, with the
radical [1 kK’ou’ is a bill, or mouth.

327
‘2& p’ad’, To soak, a blister.
“/, 7}( shui®, Radical 85, water.
@‘,@ pao', The phonetic; to wrap np; primitive
meaning :—gestation. With water added
to this we have, water wrapped up, a
blister (W. 54. B.).

pai®, To place, to put, to spread out.
%;‘. * shou®, Radical 64, the hand. :
§E pa*, Phonetie, an officer ; # neng’, able and
wang®, an officer taken in the net of the
law; to discharge. With the addition of
hand, which usually indicates that the
character is used as a Verb, the idea of
Page-121
111

placing articles in order is couveyed, for in
securing the dismissal of an officer one
must set forth the evidence ; here the hand
is setting articles in their proper positior.
For fg See No. 357.

329
@ yiieh®, to exceed.
tsou’, Radical 156, to walk.

mkﬁ viieh* The phonetic; a lance X ko' with a

0 *“, *U ho?,

hook L. (W. 71. L.). & yichis a
halberd with an additional hook thus
something extra is iferred. With the
addition of the above radical it forms the
character for exceed.

Harmony ; with.

I ¥ ou®, Radical 30, the mouth.

K ko’

331

Phonetic; grain and mouth are adapted
one to the other, hence the meaning of
harmouy.

tsait, Sin, crime.
ot [J] wang’, Radical 122, a net.

3’5 fer*,

Phonetic, not right. With the addition of
B wang® the idea is conveyed that trans-
gression JE fer', is caught in the net -of
the law and it is called sin. This charac-
ter was formerly written & tsur, (W. 102.
H.). A malicious scribe substituted the
character 82 huang for this character and
the  Emperor Ch’in-shih-huang forthwith
changed the writing of tsu* by lmperial
decree to its present form and tabooed the
former writing.
Page-122
112

332 %

333%

334%

pei*, T'o increase, fold, times. Original mean-

ing was to rebel.

A/f Jer, Radical 9, a man.
,;.-a"a t'ou' Phonetic, to cut a speaker short by

interrrupting him in his speech. (W. 133.
A). The older writing is & pu' above
O K ou®, mouth and a little stroke on'top
chu®, which is said to represent expression
of contempt. The present meaning of the
character ff seems to have been given it
without etymological reason.

cho?, or chad’, Right, to just hit, after a verb

& ¥ yan

the sign of the success of the action.

N Radical 123, sheep.

This is a modern. character and it is
written in several ways. ¥ The phonetic
which can best be explained is

ﬁ, %‘i ché®, This symbol was invented to represent the

clauses of a sentence which were being con-
nected, the [ tzu' is the central part and
on cither side are branches or arms which
take hold of the clauses and bring them
together. (W.159 B.)

hsiang', Like, resembling, an image of a man.
A,/f jen*, Radical 9, man.
2{_ 3 hsiang', Phonetic, elephant. This is a primi-

tive, representing the animal. On topis
the trunk, then are the tusks; the body
legs.and tail make up the rest of the char-
acter. (W.69.L.). It is difficult to ex-
Page-123
335 %

+l-

4

%

337 E)E

113

plain why this symbol should® have been
taken for an image.

kai*, To cover, a cover; to build.

W ts'ad®, Radical, No. 140, grass.

ﬁ ho® Phonetic ; a dish filled and covered ; why
not? With the addition of + the char-
acter is used for the roof or any cover.
The W ts’ao®, indicates that where this
character was coined, houses = were
thatched. (W. 38.G.)

chu', To dwell, to stop.
Jjén’, Radical No. 9, a man.
* chu’, Phonetic, a lamp with the flame rising.
(W. 83.D.). By extension, ‘a man who
- sheds forth light. (See No. 210). With
the addition of the radical, the character
stands for, to dwell, as if the inference
was:—those who can enlighten others
are those who have a permanent abode.

wu', A room, a house.
P shik', Radical No. 44, a corpse, is the usual
definition of this rad., but a person lying
or sitting down is a better explanation.

§, § chib*, Phonetic, to grrive at. This is an old

R

character and what is called phonetic has
no phonetic use. The FE represents a bird
Jjust alighting on the earth; thus a room
is a place where a person can come and
recline. (W. 324, G.). (See No. 38.)

szu', Resembling.
jen®, Radical No. 9, a man.
Page-124
114

u 7 Phonetic. This is a very ancient character

= m 1,

yit,

E L)

310 :ﬂi, ;ﬁ‘ put

-and is supposed to represent the breath
leaving the mouth without obstruction
as from asthma or other impediment.
(See No. 121) (W. 85 F). With the ad-
dition of A the idea is conveyed that the
man has the same lung capacity as the
normal individual.

Reason, principle.

, Radical No. 96, a geni. (See No.124).

Phonetic, the smallest country village. It
is composed of 1B t'ien® and *: ¢'u, tillable
land. (W. 149 D.). This is the 166th
radical. (cf. No. 82). With the addition
of the X the idea is conveyed that a gem
must be cut according to. fixed rules just
as a field has to be divided into furrows
in order that it may be of greatest usc.

| Cloth, cotton cloth.

['] chin', Radical No. 50, a napkin. (Sce No.143).

ﬁ ',

Phonetic, father. This phonetic is not re-
_cognizablein the modern writing, but it is
distinet in the seal writing. (W. 35 C.).
& is probably purely lzixonctic, but some
think that it implies oyder. In weav-
ing one must proceed according to a
fixed order. The material used by the
ancients was a kind of linen or flax. Cot-
ton is a modern development. Fu* & is
the 88th radical. (Sce No. 317). !

341 E fang®, A house.
hu', Radical No. 63, a door, a window (No. 5).
Page-125
115

jj ‘l_.ﬁ » fang', Phonetic, a square. This is a sugges-
tive phonetic as most houses, or rooms
are-nearly square. A thing which is
square- and has doors and windows is o
house.. For J§ fang' see No. 147 (W. 117
A.); it is the 70th radical.

342 3 .
w . hsieh*, Thanks, to thank.
&, yen® Radical No. 149, word. (See No. 10).

%, ﬁa‘eﬁ shé, Phonetic, to throw out ; to shoot, as an
arrow, against someone f. See the
oldest form. Combined with the rad., g,
the idea is to throw out words of thanks.
(W. 131. D).

343
lg kan?, To drive, to hurry, to strive for.
7B tsou’, Radical No. 156, to walk. (See No. 146).
g % han', Phonetic, droughth, rainless, dry. This
? is composed of F kan', (supposed to be a
pestle, thus by extension to grind, to
offend), and B jik'; with theaddition of B
jik*, the fierce effects F of the sun are ‘set
forth. (W.102 A). When the radical &
is added,jthe idea of driving or hitrrying is
conveyed. The sun is the signal which
sets the Orient to work.

 

tsan', To commend, to praise.
‘E yen’, Radical No. 149, word. (See No. 10).
g E tsan®, Phonetie. | (W.-79 B.). From 4 sher,
to advance in order to make a statement
and B pei, money ; to come forward with-
a present, to aid. When the above radical
is added the idea of commendmg is given.
Page-126
116
s ¥¢% * mer",

o

L

&
, Beautiful, excellent,

vang®.Radical, No. 123, a sheep. (Sce 253).
ta‘, Phonetic, large, "but originally it meant a

man. (W.103 A). A man who has the
disposition of a sheep, mild and gentle.

shih', A song or hymn.
‘S yer*, Radical No. 149, a word. (See No. 10).

X ssut,
aF

Phonetic, a court or temple. (W. 79 B.).
The place where the law ~f is promulgated.
continually 4. (See No. 125). The

* upper part is W chih', a small plant issu-

+ shik

ing from the ground, conveying the idea
of development or progress; something
which is continual. With the addition of
the radical § it stands for prolonged
words, a song. The words from the
throne should be as music in the cars of
the people.

 

BALLER, LESSON XII.

nan®, South.

?, Radical No. 24, ten. (See No. 47).

This character-cannot be broken up into
a radical and a phonetic as it is an old
symbol for south or the place of 3 jer’,
luxuriant vegetation. The [] are the
boundaries of-a .place-.or field and the
vegetation forces its way over them by
constant growth +=¥. (W.79G).

3K pe?, North.

t pi*, Radical No. 21, a spoon ; inverted man.
Page-127
349 E,é

351#

117

This is another character which cannot be
reduced to a radical and plwnehc. (W.
27 G.).- It represents two men stand-
ing back to back in the seal writing ; com-
pare A ts'ung® to follow. The custom of
the Chinese is to face the south, therefore
the back is toward the north.

chil?, Straight.

mu', Radical No. 109, the eye. (See No.102).

shil?, Phonetic, ten. (W. 10 K.). What ten
eyes declare to be without deviation L
must be straight. (See No. 99).

wang?®, To go towards, towards.

ch'ik* Radical No. 60, to stepfwith left foot.

wang® Phonetic, Tuxuriant vegetatnon wh:ch
springs from the earth in tufts here and
there ; rambling, (W. 79 D.). With the
addition of the radical it means to stray
or roam about.
This phonetic has nothing in common
with % che® alord or with £ wang®a
prince. Initsmodern writing itis confus-
ing as it is not always written the same
way. 3£ Kuang’, a mad dog comes from
this phonetic, but the top dot is left off.
This is a suggestive phonetic in J£ as a mad
dog wanders about aimlessly. The idea
of aimless is suggested as these tufts of
-vegetation spring up without regard to
order.

I8, To leave, to separatc; from, distant from.
Page-128
113

chua* Radical No. 172, a short-tailed bird.

.(No. 21).

ﬁ % I#, Phonetic, a yak or elk. (W. 23 E). This

X g

phonetic plus the above radical was for-
merly used for the Chinese oriole, a very
beautiful yellow bird now called # B
huang® Ii*. According to Kuei Shih Shuo
Wen, when this bird was heard or seen in
the spring, it was the summons for the
unmarried daughters to leave the parental
roof for the home of their future hus-
bands. Thus the idea of. “ to leave ” at-
tached itseif to the character, and another

.character jvas adopted for the bird.

a!, To differ ; a discrepancy.

T, kung', Radical No. 48, work. This is doing

violence to the construction of the charac-
ter to say that T. kung'is the rad., as the
I isonly a part of & tso®, left hand. (No

89).
i, % }',B‘\ ch’u®, Phonetic, to hang down, (W. 13 E.).

353,?';}

(See No. 387).

This charactér 2 has undergone many
changes. The oldest form is f (W. 46
C.). The right and left hand are not
working in unison, one is directed nupward
and the other downward. The idea of
the present writing is that the left hand is
hanging down, not doing its part, thus
there is a discrepancy.

ch'uar, A boat.

b chou', Radical No. 187, aboat. (See No.108).
Page-129
354 ﬂ:

119

g"/l} yen' Phonetic, the ravines in the imountains

through which the torrents flow. (W. 18
1%.). Tuvan Shih Shuo Wen gives a b(:‘ttcr
explanation. He says that the phoneticis
¥ ven®, a coast ; thus we would have this
character taking the place of our English
word, eoaster, as the Chinese did not
build hoats for crossing the oceans, a
coaster was their largest vessel. Some
have tried to prove that this character
indicates ‘that the Chinese knew about
Noah’s ark as it is made up of a boat and
eight persons. A Pa' 0 Kow®. This is
only useful to aid in remembering how to
write the. character, as it is of modern
construction, not much over 2000 years
ago—long after the deluge.

chiang', A large river.
IR, ¥ shui*, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
kung', Phonetic, labour. This phonetic may

have originally been T kung* tribute. The
Yang Tzu Chiang was the river which
hore the tribute from the nine chou, JLH
(nine provinces) to the Emperor. For-
merly official documents were carved on
tortoise shell and the material apparently
was limited in quantity, so that occa-
sionally characters were abbreviated on
account of lack of space. An abbre-
viation of a character in an, official docu-
ment was a preeedent for all time and some
characters have thus been changed so that
Page-130
120

it is difficult to find an ‘explanation for
their present construction.

e % chuang', To pack, to fill, to pretend.
‘&K 7, Radical No. 145, clothes. (See No. 51).
u* 4§ chuang’, Phonetic, a stont man. The idea of
! stout is obtained from M ch’iang®. (See
No. 84). The +--shih* is man. (See No.
69). (W.127B.)
As this character was early used for an
officer and as officers wore their robes of
-office, there are many characters which
have the above phonetic whose meaning
has to do with appearance. Thus when
the radical for clothing is added, the idea
is to pretend to be what one is not, or to
fill full.
6
% yiiai?, Distant.
3o cho*, Radical No. 162, to go. (See No. 10).
é ﬁ yiian® Phonetic, a long robe. (See No. 51).
y (W. 16 L.). There is evidence that this
character has been .changed from the ori-
ginal writing and the -present writing is
not explained. 1f onc remembers when
going on a long journey long clothes are
worn it may assist in recalling the make
up of the character.

o ﬁég%&g neng®, Able.

N jou', Radical No. 130, meat. (See No. 133).
This character rcfuses to be broken up
into radical and phonetic, it formerly
meant the “large brown bear,” and he-
Page-131
3535‘&

359%

380§

121

cause of his great strength he was con-
sidered extremely able. Thisindicates that
a slang word has been incorporated into
the language as the correct expression for
able. (W. 27 ].). The character, is ex~
plained thus; two & paws, A the body,
and .y the head.

. chin', Near, in time or place.
3 cho' Radical No. 162, to go (See No. 10).
f“- rQ chin', Phonetic, ax, baltle ax; catty. A picture

of the axhead. It was used for a weight
of 16 ounces or catty. (W. 128 A).
The character scems to suggest the proper

‘way for a warrior to advance, (to go to

battle), with lis battle ax in his hand, i.c.
near. Both near §i and jg far have this R.

Iun®, To revolve ; a wheel.
,ﬁ ch'e!, Radical No. 159; a cart, a barrow.

(No. 136).

ﬁ R lun® Phonetic, a bundle A of doctuments in pro-

per order . (W 14.G.) With the addi-
tion of the above radical the idea of order is
retained as a wheel must have the spokes
arranged properly. The ancient docu-
ments werc engraved on bamboo slips and
tied together, as shown in the seal writing,
consequently the phonetic is suggestive.

17, Plums ; baggage.
* mut, Radical No. 75, wood. (Sec No. 22).
? tzu, Phonetic, son. Kang Hsi’s dictionary

affirms that, owing to the plum being very
prolific, it was represented by wood and
Page-132
122

361@

362&

A,
R

son ; the character son is here recresent-
ing the fruit on the tree. When travelling
ones baggage should stick to him as un-
ripe fruit clings to the tree. Pupils are
somctimes referred to as peaches and
plums,—they arc unripe fruit receiving
their-development from the teacher.

ku', To hire, to engage.
/f Jen®, Radical No. 9 ; man.
E ku*, Phonetic, to hire. This character is written

in two ways, with and without the radi-
cal for man and it has the same meaning.
The upper part of the phoneticis F hnt
..the 63 rad., a door, a family, a farmer,
The lower part is 4 chui'; a short tailed
bird, the: 172ndfradical. A logical inter-
pretation of the combination of these two
radicals would be, the farmer’s bird. In
ancient times there were nine kinds of
birds called Jg ku'. The arrival of each of
these JE ku', on their migratory expedi-
tions was regarded as the sign for com-
mencing certain lines of husbandry. Thus
when the quail was seen in early snminer
it set the farmers to harvesting their
wheat; when wild geesc appeared in the
fall, the crops must be gathered in.
Thus the character means to set a person
to work. . Shuo Wen. (cf. W. 129 A.).

ching', Classic books ; to pass through; al-

ready.

mi', Radical No. 120, silk. -
,;ﬁ ching' Phonetic, the watercourses ( under the
Page-133
353”@

W

365

128

ground —.. (W. 12. H.) These water~
. courses are of first importance in the
mind of the geomancer, hence this phoe-
tic enters into the composition of many
characters. (See No. 136). With' the
addition of the silk radical it stood for
the warp, the long threads in a piece of
cloth. These threads were very import-
ant in Chinese civilization. In 3§ ching’
the neck, because the courses of the veins
were visible, this phonetic was nsed.

shun', Favorable, prosperous.
veh', Radical No. 181 ; head ; leat of a book.

(See No. 105).

P e 3 : . Y
,)ll «\ ch'uan', Phonetie, a large viver formed by the

junction of several others. Perhaps the
idea of this combination is :-—when atluirs
flow in a current which is in accordance
with ones head or wishes, B, it is then
favourable. (W. 12 E).

 
  

Radical No. 40 a roof. (Sec No. 1).

a g ko>™*, Phonetic, eacls, every, all. (W. 31 B).
’

A place where all can have a roof over
their heads. Such an individunal is called
a % K'o'. (See No. 272).

kaa', Ta blow.

{@‘ B feng', Radical No. 182 ; the wind. Iuscets &
A

are born under the influence of wind or
vapor \ (W. 21 B).

ﬁ,% she’, Phonctic, the tonguc. (Sec No. 73).

This is a modern character and is not
Page-134
124

found in the Shuo Wen. Thc combination
would suggest that the character was
coined for a blustering wind which licked
up the dust as if by a tongue.

366
l& shou', To receive, to gather together.
A, X p'ul Radical No.66; to tap, to rap. (See No.17)-
_ll , s chid' Phonetic, tendrils. This is a primitive
which was formerly used alone, but in the
rearranging of characters a radical had to
be written with it, as the primitive is not
one of the radicals. The clinging of ten-
drils is a very suggestive symbol for the

above meaning. (W. 54 F.).
3“7 shil?, to pick up ; ten.
;]’ F shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand.
b ho®, Phonetic, with. (See No. 103). The
’ phonetic seems to have no phonetic value

i_n' this character, but it indicates that
things arc picked up when the hand and
article come together.

 

BALLER, LESSON XIIL

e i § chang®, A measure of ten feet.
— 7, Radical No. 1, one.
This is an old character and it was com-
posed of the right hand AX yu', holding: -
shih?, ten, (a ten foot pole). !

369
% ,@ tien', Lightning, electricity. -
[ yi, Radical No. 173, rain. (See No. 61).

q; Q 2 H shen', Phonetic, Chalfant says that this was a
I representation of lightning which even-
Page-135
370 ﬁ
o

M,

"He

m,m

=
&

125

tually became the sign for ** deitys” The
combination of the radical for rain and
the symbol for lightning is not an incon-
sistent sign for electricity. (See Nd. 227).

lun', To discuss ; an essay.
yer, Radical-No. 149, a word. (See No. 10).
lur?, Phonetic, documents assembled in order.

(See No. 359). With the addition of the
above radical the idea is conveyed of
setting statements in order so that the
thought is made lucid. (W. 14 G).

1, For, instead of.

E viieh', Radical No. 73, to speak. The original

idea of this radical was to depict a word
issuing from the mouth. (See No. 9).
The phonetic of this character has no
phonetic value. Tt was originally two
3t Ii* characters side by side, but it was
afterwards changed to two % fu' charac-
ters, and the lower partwas { tzu, % thus
.the idea was that the first man sy /i* could
not do something, but the second Ii*did it
just as if the first man had done it him-
sclf . Both 3r and ® mcan man. (W.
60 I..).

p'a’, To fear; lest.

iy hsin', Radical No. 61, heart. (See No. 18).

373»5)%

B paf’

. Phonetic, white. White heart—no cour-

age. Fright causes onc to turn pale.
(See No. 6).

liang®, To measure.
Page-136
126

37 %

375 R

% If', Radical No. 166, a Chinese mile. (See No.

82).

The phonetic of this character was g
'liangz, but it is so modified in the present '
writing that it is of little aid to refer to
it. The etymology of the charactei is
difficult to trace and the Chinese have in-
vented an etymology which after once
hearing it is difficult to forget :—the dis-
tance to the sun H has been measured
and it was found to be one I* above the
Earth. H sun — one B I

kou', Enough, fully.

By kung’, Radical No. 57, a bow. (See No. 55).

A, B

,?\

ch'iielt, K’e', Phonetic, shell, husk. It is pro-

bable that the idea was to strike % shu'
something hollow % K'¢'. When bow is
added to this phonetic the idea of enough
is said to be suggested because an archer,
in shooting, draws the bow to the full.
He makes a large vacant space between
the bow and the string. (W. 34 I).

ch'il’, a foot, a span.

f‘ shil?, Radical No. 44, a corpse, a person in the

reclining posture, an adult.

N, Z i, Plhonetic, germination; here it indicates the

opening out of the hand in the act of mak-
ing a span. The P shik' is said to be the
male, adult hand. It is probable that this
character has been contracted and thus
the part which indicated the hand has
been deleted. In-the ] Chou dynasty the
Page-137
127

unit of length measured about twenty cen-
timeters, If one remembers this it will
help to understand measurements in the
Classics. (W. 32 F.).

376
w s ﬁﬁ pad’, To announce; to recompense; a news-
paper.
F 2 Radical No. 32, carth.

::?‘ i nieh', a criminal, a man % who has committed
crime ¥, jer®. cf. No. 274 (W.102G.,D.).
It is unfortunate that the scribes have
caused the left part of the $§ character
to be identical with

$,§ hsing®, fortunate, lucky, as it has a very
different meaning.

R, rq’ fu® The right part of the character shows a
hand holding a seal, and about to stamp
the order for punishment. (W. 55 .C.)
The idea of to announce #§ is obtained
owing to an official trying a criminal case
% and publishing his decision R.

= )%, E’\ chi?, an office, a shop.
P‘ shik', Radical No. 44, a corpse. Thisis another

character . which cannot be divided up
jnto radical and phonetic a%'the base of
the character is R ch'ik’, the expanded
hand, a span and O k’ou’, the mouth, The
explanation given is that in fixing up a
shop one must not only use the liand but
the mouth must also be used to inquire
the best mode of procedure. There is
another explanation of the character
which may be easier to remiember. ~ The
Page-138
128

3
|

379 E’ g

380&

chih' Risa foc;t, (a square foot) and the
O K'od® is one of the positions on a chess
board. A chess board a foot square is
large enough and the squares are places
for stopping or resting. (W.32 F,).

1%, Happiness, prosperity.
78 shik',Radical No.113; toreveal. (See No.227).
g fu* Phonetic, abundance. (W. 75 D.). The

most satisfactory explanation of this
phonetic is that it is a contraction of &
kao',high and | t'ier?, a field, the products
of the field piled high is a good symbol tor
abundance. With the addition of the
radical the idea is that a Superhuman in-
fluence has decreed abundance, hence the
meaning happiness. (cf. No. 267).

hsiang®, To receive, to enjoy.
- ¢or?, Radical No. 8, above.

This character does not divide up into
radical and phonetic. The ancient writ-
ing was two 7 characters, one upright
and the other inverted, they were con-
tracted to 2. Here is another illustra-
tion of the reversing the meaning of a
character by inverting it. The upper
part & is written in the ordinary way
and means superior; the lower part
is inverted and means inferior. The ©
in the seal form is the gift which is being
handed up to the superior by the inferior.
(W. 75 D.).

cheng*, To rule; government.
Page-139
129

i p'u* Radical No. 66, to strike or tap. The
seal character is a right hand holding a
rod. (See No. 17).

1E cheng*, Phonetic, right, exact. A government
¥ should act X p’'u* in an orderly and ex-
act JE manner. (SeeNo.12). (W.1121).

381
E!!; t'ieh!, To paste.

R pei*, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).

|-|j chan®, Phonetic, to usurp, to seize, to divine.
An old definition of the character §5 is
““to leave in pledge.” An article left in
pledge is marked by pasting a written
statement upon it. It is possible that
the meaning which is now prevalent
originated in this way. The above
phonetic also means to divine, but the
meaning to usurp seems to be more
logical in this combination. (W. 56 B).

% % mo*, Tnk.
1, Radical No. 32, earth.

% R hei', Phonetic, black. The seal writing of this

S character is a ventffor] smoke and the
lower part is two fires, one above the
other, indicating a succession of fires.
Around the vent lampblack accumulates,
‘hence a very appropriate symbol for black.
It is the 203rd radical. Mixing lamp-
black with earth + is probably the way
ink was first made. (W. 40 D).

-~ n% an', Dark.
B jih*, Radical No. 72, sun.

% yin'; Phonetic, sound. This is the 180th, radi-
Page-140
180

384 ‘@

 

385

 

¢

l‘,$

o

cal. (See No. 39). There are several
characters which have thisradical as their
phonetic and have a meaning of dark or
obscure ; it may be.that this meaning has
been attached to this phonetic owing to
sound being invisible. When the sunis
invisible it isdark. (W. 73 E).

er', Grace, to show favor. |
Sy hsin, Radicat No. 61, heart.
m yin', Phonetic, because. (W. 60 B). The ori-

ginal meaning of this phonetic was a

man confined in a cell. One cannot but

feel sorry for a prisoner thus confined.

If this feeling of sorrow leads one to

liberate him, that is grace and it is repre-

sented by placing heart, . hsin' ander |
fl

yin'.

hui', Kind, grace.
I hsin', Radical No. 61, heart.
ﬁ ch'uan' Phonetic. This is supposed to repre-

sent an ox with a trace attached to a
bar behind the horns; and at the end of
the trace there is a hook for attaching
objects which are to be drawn. Byex-
tension, when ones heart is drawn into
his work he is kind, he allows his better
feelings to enter into his actions. (W.
91 E, G).. .

tier®, A dictionary, records.
J\ pa', Radical No. 12, eight.

P =it ch'

af?, Phonetic, books. This is an old char-
acter and has dropped out of use. It,in
Page-141
387 i‘;

388 }ﬁ

131

the seal writing, represents bamboo
books placed in order. The lower part of
the character was a table JL wu', and not
A pa', but when radicals were sought to
classify all characters, the legs of the table
were taken for A pa'. (W.156 C).

w1, Post house.
#*, Radical No. 163, a city. (See No. 11).
ﬁ‘i ch’uf?, Phonetic, a hough loaded with leaves

and drooping flowers (W. 13 E). Chalfant
says that this phonetic is a spray of wis—
taria. As these flowers hang pendent,
this symbol has been adopted for charac-~
ters which convey the idea of hang-
ing or suspension. Thus §E shui* to sleep,
implies that the eyelids are drooping and
are suspended over the eyes. A posthouse
was on the frontier. This was the only
place where the Government maintained
postal communications, the Emperor espe-
cially desiring to know the condition of
affairs in the villages or cities which were
located on the fringes of his domain.
They are' looked upon as the ““hanging
on” cities. )

 

. BALLER LESSON XIV.

fi?, A prefecture ; a palace.
r‘ yen® Radical No. 53, a covering, a hut.

Phonetic, to deliver to. With the addition
of the radical the meaning of the charac-
ter is a place I~ where taxes are, paid,
ff. A man 1 takes and a hand ~} gives.
(W. 45 C).
Page-142
132

389 M é?t chou', A political district.
B K ch’uan?, Radical No. 47, streams. (W. 12 E).
This is. an old character and does not
break up into radical and phonetic. In
the old writing it represents tracts of land
surrounded by rivers. (W.12L).

390
% hsien®, A district.
% mi Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).
;!;L |8, hsiao' Phonetic, the head of a criminal hang-
S W . A B =
ing up, the hair is hanging down. (W.
160 A). With the addition of & hsf', a
modification of % mui* silk, the idea of the
head being hung up is emphasized. A
hsien* was a place where an official resided
whose rank enabled him to execute crimi~
nals. (See Chalmers No. 187).

. "ﬁ A l%’ sheng?, or hsing®. Sheng’, a province ; hsing,
. watchful.
B mu', Radjcal 109, the eye. (See No. 102).
ﬂ? shao®, Phonetic, few. This phonetic is devoid
of phonetic significance. There are three
ways of explaining this character, but
only two .of them are worth recording.
The ¥ is said to be the eyebrow frowning
as if endeavoring to see more distinctly.
The other explanation is that the 4> shao®
indicates a narrowing of the palpebral
fissure in order to see better. This is fre-
quently done by nearsighted persons as it
gives thém clearer vision. (W. 158 D).

392
& lou?, Loft, a story, a house which is more than
one story high.
Page-143
mu’

§ low

133

*, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).

* Phonetic, the part of a palace where wo-
men are confined. (W.67N). Women #%
nii?, enclosed #h chung?,in the # wu’, prison
of the gynecium. With the addition of the
wood radical it is the symbol for a
house which is higher than the ordinary
dwelling.

393 fs
m tuan®, Short, deficient.
5% shiht, Radical No. 111, a dart. (See No. 100).

 

394 ﬁ hsi

i tou*, Phonetic, a dish. (W. 165 A.) The char-

acter for short was formed by putting
together two of the shortest utensils of the
ancients, namely, a dart and a dish.
The character for long &, was hair that
was so long it thad to be fastened with a
brooch. (For long, see W. 113 A).

', New, recent.

)? chin', Radical No. 69, an ax. (See No. 358).
% cheri* Phonetic, the Chinese hazel bush. Rods

of this shrub were used for beating crimi-
nals and, for this purpose, it was necessary
that they be freshly cut. Thus hazel
brush 3 cher’ and ax Jit chin' became the
symbol for new or fresh, as the ax by the
side of the rods implied that they were just
cut. (W. 102 H). The present writing of
hazel # chen' is not like the above, which
is the old writing.

- % chiut, Old, worn out, formerly.
Yo Ay ts’a0® Radical No. 140, grass. (SeeNos.22,40).
E chiut, Phonetic, a mortar. This seems to be a
Page-144
134

3%

397

2

%

g chius, was originally used for iR chins, a
corpse placed in a coffin. In the shops
coffins are euphemistically spoken of as
b} shout 1s'aiz, material for the aged or
old. This usage may have stamped the
meaning of old on % chiut asin the above
writing it represented the corpse in the
coffin. (W. 103 C) (cf. 428.)

huai*, To spoil, ruined.

4+ ¢’ Radical No. 82, earth.
% huaf’, Phonetic, to hide in thé bosom, covered

from the eye by putting in the breast.
(W.16 J). The upper part of the phone-
tic is a cover, the part which looks like m

wang® is H mu' written horizontally in

order that it may not take up so much
space, the lower part is the radical for
clothing with the cords which are used as
fasteners across the breast of the garment
represented. Others explain that % taf*
means to hide as the eyelashes fall over
the eye and hide it, and is here placed in-
side of the % i.e. to hide in the clothing.
cf. No. 82, 3.

With the addition of the radical for earth
the idea may have been,—if instead of hid-
ing the article in the breast it was buried
in the earth it would be ruined.

ch'a?, To examine, to search into.

ﬁ 7|&‘ mu'*, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).

ch'ieh’ Phonetic, a chair. without a back. It is
used here as a simple phoretic. This char-
Page-145
398%

399

400ﬁ

135

acter was originally used in sacrificial
ceremonies and it enters into the composi~
tion of many characters. With the addi-
tion of wood it was originally used as
a proper name and afterwards it was
written instead of % ch’a®. Thus it has
10 etymology. Correctly written 2.

nan’, Difficult, to cause distress.
4 chui'Rad. No.172,a short tailed bird. (See 21).
i‘eg han* Phonetic, dried in the sun. In the old

seal writing the sun is shining on the loess
with fiery heat and drying out the mois-
ture. With the addition of the radical for
short tailed birds, (most water fowl have
short tails) the idea is that when the pools
where these birds get their food are dried
up they are in distress. (W.171 B).

ts’ao®, Grass, herbs.
yllll' 4P ts’ao® Radical No. 140, grass.

_?‘ tsa,

0%, Phonetic, early. (See No.111). This
character originally stood for a kind of
grass which was used for dyeing articles '
black 8. With the addition of the radical
it now means any kind of grass or herb.
(W. 143 E).

chiao?, To teach; a religion ; to-allow.
#% p'u* Radical No. 66, to strike. (See No. 17).

% § hsiac?, Phonetic, to learn. The seal writing is

two crosses X =%, abovea son F. (W 39
B). Ifhereindicates question and answer-.

3&, ﬁ vac®, (See No.165). The character X has the

meaning of influence from the cutting of
shears which it pictures. Here being
Page-146
186

401

402

403

404

7

x

S

i

el

doubled it emphasizes the influence of the
teacher on the pupil 3. With the addi-
tion of the radical & the idea of applying
the rod is portrayed. (W.39G, H). The
modern writing of this phoneticis identical
with % hsiao, filial piety, but it has noth-
ing but F in common withit. (W. 30 E).

chi, To boil.
}( M huo®, Radical No. 86, fire.
cluz3 Phonetic, a final particle, a suffix. (See

No. 270). This phonetic can be regarded
as the pronoun it ; then the etymology is»
fire X it %. Boil it by putting fire under it.

chin®, To enter in, to advance.

3_ ch

% chi

o' Radical No. 162, walking and stopping.

ui* Phonetic, a short-tailed bird. It has no
phonetic significance in this character.
172nd radical. (See No. 21). With the
addition of the radical i_ it stands for to
advance; this may be because birde in
flying always move forwards, they never
fly backwards.

t'ang®, A time, an occasion.

[

’e', Radical, No. 159, a cart. (See No.136).

f'j shang®, Phonetic, a roof of a house. (See No.
]

I

52). ("W. 26 E). With theaddition of the
cart radical it is used for the number of
times a trip has been taken. The cart
suggests that the idea may have been, —
the number of trips the cart made to a
certain house and back.

, Advantage, profit.

m mm3 Radical No. 108, a dish, (See No. 233).
Page-147
e

CEZ

407#&

137

7]( shui’, Phonetic, water. The character is lying

on its side, indicating overflow, or abund-
ance. A dish ]I overflowing stands for
advantage or profit. (W.125 C). This
is an old character and antedated the
glazing of pottery. Unglazed pottery if
made of sandy clay will not hold water,
but pottery made of good clay will retain
it. It would not be strange if pottery
which held water was taken as the symbol
of advantage or profit.

sao’, To sweep.
show?, Radical No. 64 ; the hand.
chow® Phonetic, a dusting brush. (W. 44 K).

In the seal writing a hand ) is represented
as holding a broom. The addition of the
hand radical at the side was made about
200 B.C.

hsiao*, To honor parents, filial piety.
tzir*, Radical No. 39, a son.
3 lad®, Phonetic, old. This phonetic is not

brought out in the modern writing. (W.
30 E). The phonetic in # % chiao' in
modern writing is the same as # hsiao®,
but it has nothing in common with it in
etymology. (See No. 400). Lao® ¥ old,
stands for parents and the F tzi® son
should render that devotion and reverence
which is fitting and proper.

ching, To reverence.
ﬁ p'u* Radical No. 66, to strike.
% “é chi* Phonetic, to restrain ones self (W. 54

G). This phonetic is made up of ¥ yang®
Page-148
138

Msi

3R

410%

sheep, contracted, and #]J pao' to cover
and O K or the mouth. To stand meek
as a sheep and restrain ones words. With
the addition of the radical which here can
be taken as the one who wields power the
idea is to be modest in the presence of
those in authority.

t'ang’, A hall, a meeting place.
+ ¢4, Radical No. 82, earth.
ﬁj shang®, Phonetic, a house, (See No. 52) ; hence

this is a suggestive phonetic. With the
addition of the radical for earth we have
an inclosure [ which is roofed over # but
the earth is the floor, a condition which is
by no means uncommon at the present
time. (W. 36 E).

ch’'a*, A place, circumstances.
J& hut, Radical No. 141, a tiger. (See No. 258).
' ch'n’, Phonetic, a place. Suggestive phonetic.

The primitive idea of this phonetic was
to have walked ‘until tired, X sud, and
come to a seat JL chi’. This character
had the radical hw’ added to it when the
characters were being put under radicals
but it contributes nothing save difficulty
in writing. To the present day the ab-
breviated form s is without this radical.
(W. 20 B).

ch’ang?, Constantly.
chin, Radical No. 50, a napkin. (See No.

143).

(G shang*, Phonetic, a house, (See No. 52) (W-
Page-149
411 ﬂ

412

MSE

139

36 E). The radical chin' is a banner
which is constantly % floating in front of
the headquarters, 1 shang*, of the general.

& 0%, Numerative of trees.
IR mu', Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).
% kuo®, Phonetic, fruit. (W. 120 F). The fruit
is represented by H ¢’ien® on the tree. This
combination would make an appropriate
numerative of fruit trees, but it is used for
all kinds of trees.

shut, A tree.
N M, Radical No. 75, wood.

ﬁ\j- %ﬂ chu' or shu', Phonetic, upright, vertical. (W

165 D). This seems to be a hand -}
beating a drum # chou'. The idea of
vertical'may have been derived from the
position in which the drum was held.
The left part is 2 drum O on a stand and
above is an ornament. With the addition
of the wood radical we have vertical or
standing wood, trees.

 

BALLER LESSON XV.

hout, Thick, generous.

J~ ‘han* Radical No. 27, a cliff. (See No. 42).

5 hou* Phonetic, liberal, generosity. 2 is the
reverse of E=%¥ie. &=§. The.Hisa gift
and the rest of the phonetic is first five
strokes of # kao!, high, reversed ; thus it
is a gift B come down to an inferior .
A superior man or the gods would give
Page-150
140

414 @
A4

lavish gifts, thus the meaning of generous
is attached to this phonetic. The J~ han'
is not cliff but a stroke which indicates
descent or the coming down of the gift
from above. (W. 75 G).

ch’uan’, To propagate ; to hand down.
, A jer?, Radical No. 9, man.

g § chuan', Phonetic, singly, particular. (W. 91

415 g’
f mj

416 :jg

F). # ch'uan' The upper part of this
phonetic is an ox harnessed and a trace
dragging behind with a ring for attaching
loads which are to be drawn. When the
lower part of the phonetic ~} hand, is
added, it is the character for a writing
tablet which was worn attached H to the
~f wrist. These tablets were worn by the
official scribes. A man A proclaims f§
what is written on his wrist-tablet ¥,
preaches from notes.

hsid', To repairt, to build, to cultivate, adorn.

'\ Jjer, Radical No. 9, man.

m yu' Phonetic, to feel ones way across a ford
with a stick %. (See No. 160). This
phonetic has added to it 2 shan', feathers,
long hair, ornament. This compound
phonetic and the radical for man stand for
f& to cultivate, to repair. (W.12 C).

pac’, An herb of the mint family ; thin, mean.

'I' ts'ao’, Radical No. 140, grass, is connected
. with the first meaning of .

Zﬁ p'd’, Phonetic, a wide expanse of shallow

water ;k. (For # fi* see No. 151). The

phonetic ¥ £, the hand ~ of an adult, #,
Page-151
417 %

141

broad, amplitude. From this meaning
the idea of breadth runs through several
characters which have this phonetic, (W.
109 D). Here breadth without depth
suggests thinness, meanness.

hsiao*, To laugh at, to smile.
’l’fl' chu?, Radical No. 118, bamboo. (See-No. 7).

x ﬁ yao', Phonetic, a man in the act of bending

418 @

419

forward in order to jump, march or laugh
more easily. With the addition of bamboo
the character is used for, to laugh, because
when the wind waves the bamboo it
resembles the movements of a man con-
vulsed with laughter. (W. 61 B) (See
No. 322).

yiian®, Round.
D wei?, Radical No. 31, enclosure.

B é yiian®, Phonetic, round. (W. 161 B). Origi-

. &

 

nally this phonetic was the full writing of
the character, but [ wes® was added later.
The character now has two [T wes® radi-
cals as the small square above the § pet*
is wei”. The meaning was something
round like a cowrie H.

chiang®, An artisan.
[ fang' Radical No. 22, a log hollowed out.

(W. 51 A).

}1“ , [__q' chin', Phonetic, an ax. No phonetic significance.

(W. 128 A). The seal writing is said to
be a representation of the instrument.
The little stroke to the right is thought
to be a chip of wood. This is the 69th
Page-152
142

420

MIE

422 @

radical. (Cf. No. 358). When the radical
for a hollowed out log is added it stands
for an artisan or the work of an artisan.
The hollowing out of trees to make boats
or vessels was probably one of the first
mechanical devices employed.

ch'ing®, The affections, the feelings.

‘I‘ ,":‘ hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart.
.% ch’ing', Phonetic, the colors of nature, (See No.

"

63), (W. 115 D). With the addition of
the radical for heart the character stands
for those feelings which are pure or
natural to the heart of man.

shih?, Real, true,.really, solid.

s> mier?, Radical No. 40, a roof.

<B-

®

kuan', Phonetic, long strings of cowries or

cash. (W. 153 A). The upper part of
the phonetic, which by the way has+no
phonetic value, is two articles M strung
together on a string —, 4 kuan®, and the
lower part shows that these articles are
cowries or coins H pei’. When roof is
added the character stands for real wealth
stored away where it is available for use,
not a false pretense of wealth.

hsing?®, to become sober after ‘being drunk, to
5

wake up, to startle.

B @ i Radical No. 164; a kind of jar which was

used for keeping fermented ].iqﬁors. The —
shows that there is something in the jar,
(W. 41 G).

Eg hsing', Phonetic, stars. (W. 79 F). The
Page-153
143

oldest writing of this character has three
stars or suns above 4: sheng'. The stars

& are supposed to be formed 4 sheng' from
the quintessence of sublimate matter rising
up to heaven. & ching'=clear, crystal. W&
hsing® is to become clear- headed after
intoxication.

423 =
2 m huo', Calamity, misfortune.
78, 4 shikt, Radical No. 113, to reveal. (See No.
227).
[Eﬁ kua® Phonetic, a defect in the conformation of
the bones of the mouth a cleft palate. (See
No. 119). When the above radical is
combined with this phonetic there is the
suggestion of divine judgment. If a child
is born with a hare lip or a cleft palate &
it is regarded as a calamity j§ sent from
heaven 77, (W.118 A).

424
9% Kd, To cry.
1 Eou?, Radical No. 30, the mouth.

j‘(,# cl'iian®, Phonetic, dog, — without phonetic
significance.  Confucius remarked that
this character is a picture of a dog. The
two mouths Wi hsiian' indicate a call or
outcry, hence 5 means to howl or cry mm
after the manner of dogs £. (W.72C).

- ch'ien’, Shallow.

7](, ;‘/ shu®, Radical No. 85, water.

. i chien® Phonetic, to. exterminate, to destroy,
dangerous. The common work of two or
more halberds. (W. 71 R). (See No.
13). This phonetic always gives a bad
Page-154
144

or insignificant color to the character.
Shallow water is dangerous to a sailor.

N ﬁ, ﬁ shih', An age, a generation, thirty years.
— 1!, Radical No. 1, one.
ki) san' shih?, Phonetic, thirty. No phonetic
significance. (W. 24 O0). Jf is the con-
traction of three -} shih® or thirty and the
horizontal line below in {#, is the radical /*
—one. Thirty years make one generation.

i i, ﬁ wen’, Strokes, lines, literature, elegant.
Radical No. 67. This is one of the oldest
characters and it is supposed to represent
the grain in wood or ripples on water.
(W. 61 F).

428 )
ch’iian®, To exhort, to advise.

73 I, Radical No. 19, strength. (See No. 212).
E g kuan', Phonetic, a heron. (W. 72 J). A
! short-tailed bird 4 chui’, with egrets,
or horns, which has a loud call *® hsiian'.
The horns of a sheep are taken to repre-
sent the egrets. The Shuo Wen has no
etymology for this phonetic in combina~
tion with the above radical. It may be
that this combination was used owing to
the great patience of the heron. Its
Chinese common name is “old waiter”,
Iao® teng®. It will gaze into the water for
hours without moving, in order to secure
a fish. If we could use the same patience
and vigilance in persuading men much
would be accomplished, hence it is not an
inappropriate symbol for, to exhort.
Page-155
429 ‘%

430%
3

145

ma', To curse, to revile.
F“{[B] wang®, Radical No. 122, a net. (See No. 38),

(W. 39 C).

X6 ma®, Phonetic, horse. Radical No. 187. (See

No. 261), (W. 137 A). The Shuo Wen
does not explain this character . It seems
to be an arbitrary combination of radical
and phonetic. Catch a horse £ in a net
B and you will want to revile fg.

) jé%, To provoke, to irritate.
i hsin', Radical No. 61, heart. (See No. 18).

%, % jé', Phonetie, the primitive sense is to pick 3

431 5!“% ﬁ

herbs ¥f to eat O ; to select. (W. 46 G).
The ordinary meaning is if. Just why this
combination of radical and phonetic should
mean to irritate is not very apparent. If
the # jé'is regarded as selecting,—one who
is over particular in selecting is most ex-
asperating, or irritating to the mind ..

wu?®, Without, none.
k huo®, Radical No. 86, fire. Fire wasarbitrari-

1y considered as the radical of this charac-
ter; in the old writing there is no such
element in its composition but #k forest is
the original form for the ». Chalfant sug-
wests that this character is made up of g
ch’eng®, primitive meaning, a warriors
car and 5 wang?, lost. This last charac-
ter, in an old writing, is placed where the
horses should be and the idea, according
to the above mentioned authority, is that
the animals have strayed away in the
forest. The forest is represented by #k
Page-156
146

Iir®, in seal writing and the ¢ wang® is
placed between the two trees. (See Chal-
fant Plate XXVIII, and W. 10 I).

< ﬁ chieh®, A boundary, a limit.
M ¢ien?, Radical No. 102, a field. (See No. 207).
ﬁ-’ ﬂ‘ chieh?, Phonetic, boundaries, the lines that se-
parate A pa', men A jen’. (W. 18 F).
With the addition of the radical for
field the idea of field boundaries is very
evident.
[ % lan®, A basket.
"‘"‘,’ﬂ' chu?, Radical No. 118, bamboo. (See No. 7).
% chien', Phonetic, to examine, to oversee, a jail.
(W.82 F). (See No. 294). By taking
the meaning of this phonetic as a jail or
place of confinement, then by the addition
of the bamboo radical we have a wicker
utensil in which articles may be placed or
confined, for safe transportation.

434
m shui*, To sleep.
H mu*, Radical No. 109, the eye. (See No. 102).

i ch'uf®, Phonetic, to hang down. (W.13E),
(See No. 387). With the addition of the
radical for eye the idea of the eyelids com~
ing down and covering the eye is set forth,
naturally suggesting sleep.

chien*, Radical No. 147, to see, to perceive.
(W.158 C). (See No. 85).
B hsiac? Phonetic, to learn. (W.391I). The two

43,
) % chiao®*, chiiel’, To perceive, to feel.
i
Page-157
147

sides of the phonetic are the two hands of
the teacher pressing down on the — waste
space where ignorance reigns in the head
of the pupil; the two W 7*'between the
hands indicate the questioning and ans-
wering of teacher and pupil. # = doubl-
ing of X, cutting shears, idea of influence
(see No. 400 and 165). With the ad-
dition of the radical, B to perceive, the
characrer means, to perceive, to know.

BALLER, VOCABULARY IIIL

436
%‘, %l hat*, To injure ; to contract a disease.
+** mien® Radical No. 40, a roof, (See No. 1).

This being a very old character it does not
fall easily into radical and phonetic. The
phonetic should be a combination of #
chieh* and 1 Kou® but we find no such

- combination outside of this character. #
chieh' is the first mmnemonic invention
after the knotting of strings. It represents
notches Z on a | stick. The stick was
injured by these notches. When the
word for mouth, O Koi, is'added the
idea is that one injures another by slander
and when the above radical is added, the
injury is done under cover " ie. secretly.
(W.97E). # Chielt'is very like, % feng*
a leafy bough, (See No. 312).

il ﬁ ping*, Disease, defect.
7»-4 ni* or chi* Radical No. 104, disease. This radi-
cal is made up of — 1* a straight horizontal

line, the position of a sick person, and bed
Page-158
148

H cRiang’. Thus it means, to be sick.
The scribes arbitrarily added a dot -on
top. (W.127 C).

ﬁ, rlm ping® Phonetic, the third of the ten stems. It
is a fire #in a house M and thus itis asug-
gestive phonetic, as a feverish person, a
sick person, is hot (W. 41 A). When the
radical for disease is added to this phone-
tic it forms a fitting symbol for disease.

438 5
g, @ hsiieh?, Snow.

4 @, Radical No. 178, rain. (Sec No. 61).

=+ ch’ou’ Phonetic, a hand. (W. 44 A). The
original phonetic was broom, # hui* but
it has been contracted to ch’ou® and there
is little use in remembering the original
phonetic, save to explain why the present
phonetic has no phonetic value. (W. 44
J). With the addition of the rain radical
we have the rain §§ which can be taken
up in the hand = or swept away . A

439 good combination for symbolizing snow.
% i*, To heal.

ﬁ yu*, Radical No. 164, wine or a cordial. (See
No. 422).

BR i Phonetic, to take ont % shu' arrows % from
the quiver B 1. The idea is that these
arrows are to be shot at the demon of dis-
ease. The cordial radical P is added as
it indicates that spirits are to be ad-

e ministered to the patient. (W. 131 C).
% yang®, To nourish, to rear.
ﬁ shik*, Radical No. 184, to eat, (W. 26 1I), (See
No. 75).
Page-159
149

3‘"—; yang’, Phonetic, sheep, (See No. 253). This is
a suggestive phonctic as the eating & of
mutton ¥ is one means of securing
nourishment, % (W. 103 A).

441 ﬁ Y ) .
) W ying', Brave, heroic; England.
H ts°a0’ Radical No. 140, grass, (See No. 22).

*, 2,1% yang', Phonetic, a. man %k in the midst of a
large space, rt; in the seal writing it is a
man in.the midst of a jungle. (W. 60 K).
With the addition of the radical 4 the
idea of jungle is still further elaborated.
It requires bravery to enter a jungle where
fierce beasts abound.

442
% té*, Virtue, moral excellence.

4 ck'ik' Radical No. 60, a step with the left foot.
(See No. 128).

%i t&® Phonetic, virtue. [ chih® upright, 1].‘_’1- hsin®
heart. This was the original writing of
the character f, but it was finally put
under the 60th radical. (See No. 99 for
explanation of phonetic). The addition
of the radical may impart the idea of
action or going out A ; in order to deve-
lope virtue it must be exercised, and go
out to others.

B '% yiian®, A court yard ; a public building.
B E_ g fir Radical No. 170, a mound. In the seal
) writing a mound [~ is depicted with three
steps Z leading to the top of a terrace.
(W. 86 A).
22 wan?, Phonetic, finished, done. (See No. 93).
‘T'his phonetic often has reference to build—
ings and with the above radical it indi~
Page-160
150

444%

445 zﬁ
3

cates a large court surrounded with
buildings, or public offices (W. 29 H).

huang®, Imperial ; the sovereign.
EI paif®, Radical No. 106, white. (See No. 6).
F wang®, Phonetic, king, ruler, royal. ' (W. 83

C). Chalfant has the most likely explana-~
tion of this character. He has found old
writings which seem to indicate that it
was a string of jade beads } ; as jade beads
could only be afforded by the royalty, this
was the symbol which was adopted to
indicate the ruling class. (See Chalfant,
Plate XVII). The f pai® is contracted
from § tzii* beginning, self, and thus the
character % huang® originally meant a
king by right of birth.

lang®, A wolf, cruel.
R ch'iian® Radical No. 94, a dog.  (See 424).

‘a é E liang®, Phonetic, good, sagacious. This phone-

tic has undergone many changes with the
varying ideas as to man’s original nature.
The primary meaning was the nature of
man, a gift from heaven, is good. The
gift is represented by ©. The coming
down from heaven was represented by 7.
The fext more modern form is §. The
two convergent strokes at the top are
heaven and earth coming together, the
middle part of the character is the gift and
the bhottom part indicates that this gift
may be lost &, (W. 75 F). This seems a
most inappropriate phonetic for wolf ; the
explanation is as follows:—The wolf is
Page-161
446§-

151

extremely sagacious, in knowing where to
go to escape danger and where food can
be obtained, he is an expert g dog, 3,
best of the dog tribe.

ling?, Spirit, spiritual, intelligent.

¥ yi, Radical No. 173 ; rain. (See No. 61).

=B g

i, o

447 zﬁ
2

00

B ling® Phonetic, the falling of rain in large

drops, the large drops are indicated by
the three circles. These circles have been
changed into squares as usual in the
modern writing. This phonetic does not
conform to the usual rule of phonetics, in
that it includes the radical and does not
contain all parts of the character except
the radical; & wu' was added to the
character at a later period. The rain
was something very earnestly desired for
the crops, and they made supplication for
it. The lower part of the characteris a
symbol which represents witches 4 danc-
ing to obtain rain ; the work T. of witches
#. (W. 72 K and for wa' W. 27 E).
Because the spirits were invoked for rain
this character has been used to represent
spirit or spiritual.

hun®, The soul.
s % kuei®, Radical No. 194 ; the spirits of the dead.

(W. 40 C). The old character is a primi-
tive representing a human being vanishing
into the air. This character has under-
gone several changes. The upper part is
said to be the head of a demon, the lower
part is a human being and the 1, is a
Page-162
152

representation of -the swirl made by the
demon when it moves.

i yin?, Phonetic, clouds, borrowed to mean
speak. This plionetic adds the idea of
evanescence. The spirit is not visible to
the natural eye. (W. 93 B).

& %-'?, &) lei?, Thunder.
ﬁi yi’, Radical No. 173 ; rain, (See No. 61).
m t'ier’, Phonetic, field. Without phonetic sig-
nificance. (See No. 45). This character
#H was originally written with three or’
four @ t'ien® and a small symbol in the

@ center which indicated reverberation; as
if the noise of thunder was caused on
account of the fields impinging. See
Chalfant, Plate VII. (W. 149 F).

49 E .
ts'éng?, A story (of a house), a layer.

F shil', Radical No. 44 ; a person in either the
recumbent or the sitting posture. A
living person who was, in ancient times,
dressed to impersonate the dead, and
was worshipped at the funeral. (W.

_32A).

@ ts'éng?, Past, already ; tséng, still more, to
add. The radical P shih' scems an inap-
propriate radical, a plausible explanation
is as follows :—the character *“ story ”’ was
needed when houses were Duilt more than
one story high. This was another room
B wu' (See No. 337) added & tséng (See
No. 230) above the ordinary room. It
may be that the character ts’eng’ J§ was
originally written Eiii.e. B room & added,
Page-163
153

but was afterwards contracted to its
present form.

>
N ‘{ﬁ chib*, To cure, to heal, to govern.
“/Jk shu#, Radical No. 85 ; water, (See No. 79).

.nL\ 1* Phonetic, I, ones self. No phonetic signifi-
cance. This was originally the name of a
river and it seems to have been adopted
to stand for the verb to cure without
etymological justification.

.4151 z ming®, A name, fame, reputation.

K ou’, Radical No. 30, mouth.

hsi' Phonetic, evening. No phonetic value.
In the evening 4 one should call out [ his
name 44, in order that others may know
who approaches. (See No. 14).

‘452 )% tao’, To pray, prayer.

/‘i{’ 7] shik’, Radical No. 113, to show, to make

— known, (See No. 227).

BF .% shou', Phonetic, longevity. (W.144B). The
upper part of this phonetic is supposed to
represent a ploughed field 2 ch’on?, and
indicates constant repetition, the furrows
are turned over one after the other. With
the addition of O &’ou® the idea of repeated
inquiry is conveyed. The present phonetic
has hand, 5} ts'ur?, added by the side of
o k' od®, as gestures aid the petition. With
the addition of the radical this character
fulfills the heathen idea for prayer;—* for
they think they shall be heard for their
much speaking.”

. jﬁﬁ shih', A lion.

& O
Page-164
154

zj‘( ch’ijan® Radical No. 94, a dog. (See No.

424).

fifi shil', Phonetic, aleader or master. Composed

of B tui’ an elevation of two steps, ele-
vated, and M) chin' and — 7', one or first.
This combination stands for the banner of
the commander-in-chief, the first —banner
M over the fort &, thus the idea of leader

.or master is conveved by this character.

With the addition of the dog radical, the
idea is set forth that the lion is the king
of beasts. (W. 86'B).

454 ! 5
ﬂ% chiang?, A wall.
3‘1 ch'iang®, Radical No. 90, a split log, (See No.

84).

IHEI& she' se', Phonetic, grain inclosed in a granary,

%

frugal, stingy. The present writing of the
phonetic has no phonetic significance, but
J& ch’iang’, means a wall and it may have
been originally used as the phonetic and
contracted to the present form. (W. 76
E). # She'is composed of lin® ® a place
® for putting.grainin, A, A\ ju*, to putin,
(contracted) and zk la®, grain, also con-
tracted. (W. 13 C), (See No. 64). (This
character now means to come). TheMm
represented bearded grain hanging from
the stalk. With the addition of the
radical which is a symbol of strength,
we have a good combination for
wall.  Walls werc early built aronnd
granaries.
Page-165
155

455 @J chi*, To adjust, to trim ; A dose of medicine.
u )] tao', Radical No. 18, a knife. (See No. 37). -
ﬁﬁf ch'i* Phonetic, even. Doses of medicine should
be of uniform size. (W.174 A). This is
the 210th radical. In the seal character
there are three stalks of grain. Stalks of
grain, standing in the field, are practical~
ly all of equal heighth. These three ap-
pear to us as quite uneven, but this is
because our ideas of the perspective differ
from those of the framer of the character.
The lower of the two horizontal lines at
the bottom, is the foreground and the
upper of these two lines is the back-
ground, thus because each head of grain
is equally high from the ground, the
character stands for even. With the ad-
dition of the knife radical we have the
idea of the apothecary using the spatula
in apportioning doses of medicine.

6 o
4 % yao*, Medicine.
H ts'ad’, Radical No. 140, grass, (See No. 22).

% ?__E yao', yiieh', Phonetic, an ornamented frame on
! le* which drums and a bell are placed. The
drums are on the sides and the bell is in

the middle. (W. 88 C.) This instrument

gives the five sounds of the Chinese scale.

It is necessary to observe the seal

writing in order to see the intention of

the symbol. These five parts of the in-
strument are all in tune. With the addi-

tion of the radical for grass, the idea is

any vegetable substance which will re-
Page-166
156

457&

458%

459 ﬁ

store the proper functioning of the body ;
restore harmony. Vegetable ' substances
were first used as medicines.

BALLER LESSON XVI.

pet, Bed-clothes, a sign of the passive, to
suffer.
% 4K i, Radical No. 145 ; clothes. (See No. 51).
K p'P, Phonetic, skin or covering. (W. 43 H.)
(See No. 224:). This is the 107th radical.
Its use here as a phonetic with the radi-
cal for cloth or clothing is logical. The
integument not being sufficient’ to keep
the individual warm, blankets were re-
garded as cloth skin. The use of this
character as the sign of the passive and its
use meaning to suffer are without etymo-
logical warrant.

ch’iao®, A bridge.
* mu', Radical No. 75, wood, (See No. 36).
ﬁ ch'iao*, Phonetic, lofty. (See No. 322), (W.
75 B). A bridge is a high % structure,
often made of wood A.

pa', To stop; finish, resign: sign of the im-
perative, interrogative particle.
] wang’, Radical No. 122, a net, (See No. 38.)
ﬁg neéng’, Phonetic, able. (W. 27 J). (See No.
357). The explanation of $ by the
Shuo Wen is; an officer,fig an able man,
taken in the meshes [ of the law and
dismissed.
Page-167
157

460 % m@ng”,‘ To cover, to conceal ; sign of passive.
HF ts'ac’, Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22).
i méng*, Phonctic, to cover. (W. 341). The

upper part of this phonetic is [] mao’; to

%. %‘ cover something. The lower part is #K
shilf, a pig under cover. Another explana-
tion is that it is a representation of the
wistaria which forms dense foliage and
hides from view any thing beneath it.
The zk shih’ is not pig, but the vine twist-
ed and coiled around itself.

3

= m pleng®, Tostrike against ; to happen ; to meet
with.

A shil?, Radical No. 112, a stone. (See No. 42).

i ping' Phonetic, together. (W. 115 B). From #

ch'ien two scale pans or shields (?) evenly

¥¥ poised; in ping' 3 # a man is placed above

each pan, or shield, indicating that the two

are going along together. When one comes

into collision with a stone 75 he is struck f.

B hsien
) hsiiel?, To learn, to study.
% tzi, Radical No. 39, son. (See No. 1).

1 hsiao® hsiieh® Phonetic, to learn. (W. 39 I).
(See No. 435). This phonetic in com-
bination with F tziis a good symbol
for, to learn.

. %%% shou*, To receive, to endure.

X vu', Radical No. 29, the right hand, (See No.
43). This character cannot be broken up
into radical and phonetic ; the upper part
is JX chao’, the right hand and below is
the right hand of a second person, (writ-
Page-168
158

464 %

465@
BN

ten in another way). Between these two
hands, one of which is giving and the
other receiving, there is a boat, only seen
in the seal writing. This  portrays a
common occurrence ; articles are brought
to a boat and received for shipment,
(W.49 E.)

miao, temple.

r“ yen',

, Radical No. 53, a covering a shelter.
(See No. 132).

%, §§ chao', Phonetic, morning ; to have an audience

hsia
L hsin’

# hsia

with the Emperor. (W. 117 D). This
phonetic is made up of kan* (See No. 137),
and #it § chod', a boat, changed to g in
modern writing. The rising of the mist
5 through the jungle ¥ as seen from.the
deck of a boat, in the morning. By ex-
tension, morning ; the Imperial court, so
called because court was held early in the
morning.

A temple is a place j~ where one can have
an audience with the gods.

ng’, To think, to ponder, to hope.

', Radical No. 61, the heart, (See No. 18).
ng', Phonetic, to examine, to inspect. (W.
158 B), (Sce No. 106). There is another
explanation of this phonetic which is not
given under the 106th character which
suggests one of its meanings, it is as fol-
lows :—When about to build, one goes
into the wood, A and examines g mu*
the trees until one is found which answers
the requirements. With this explanation
Page-169
159

the idea of appropriate is brought out.
In hoping, the heart longs for that which
is considered appropriate, or that which
is suited to its needs.

466 ﬂ‘s, %g hsiang', The country.

B i Radical No. 163, a city, (See No. 11).

la hsiang" Phonetic, cooked grain. (See No. 75).
(W. 26 L). This character is made up of
two & R i radicals, one on the right,
written in the usual manner R and one
on the left isreversed ¥ . The % is written
between these for the country is the region
between cities, where food is produced.

467 = :
i, [ _nung*, To toy with ; to do
j“ ImnglRa)dical No. 55, hands joined. (See No.
247.

3, § i, Phonetic, jade. Without phonetic signifi~
" cance. (See No. 124.) The hands are
toying with a string of jade beads,—a

very natural procedure.

465 1Ay neit, Within, inside.
A Radical No. 11, to emter. (W. 15 A.)
(See No. 35)
[—]‘ H chiung® Phonetic, space, a waste area. (W.
34 A.) The two vertical strokes indicate
the limits, and the horizontal stroke in-
dicates the space between. When A is
added, the idea of going into this area is
set forth, so this character is the symbol
for inside.

it % I'if, Bitter, sorrow, suffering.
Page-170
160

470 i‘g

471 %

4 ts'ao’, Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22).

o

ku®, Phonetic, old. (See No. 17.) (W. 24 F.)

This phonetic plus W, grass, originally
stood for a bitter plant which became
sweet after freezing. It is now used mere-
Iy as the character for bitter.

tsac', To meet, to encounter, a turn. Gen-

erally used in a bad sense of encountering
evil conditions.

5‘;_ cho* Radical No. 162, to walk. (See No. 10.)
g g ts’ao® Phonetic, judges (W. 120 K.). In an-

%

cient tribunals, two judges sat in the
Eastern Hall, represented by two ¥ char-
acters; to pronounce judgment E on cases.
brought before them. When i_ is added,
we have the picture of a man who goes
before the judges to endure an unpleasant
ordeal. Thus the character implies meet-
ing with undesirable conditions. The
modern arbitrary contraction makes the
character lose much of its original signifi-
cance.

1*, To discuss, to talk over.
ven’, Radical No. 149, words. (See No. 10.)
1*, Phonetic, harmony, righteous, public, (W.

71 Q.) This phonetic is made up of #
wo’® (See No. 2) and 2 yang? sheep. (See
No. 253). (W. 103 A.) When the above
two characters are combined, the & wo®
has its original meaning, namely, a con-
flict,—two" spears attacking each other.
With the addition of % yang®, the two
combatants have changed and become
Page-171
472 ﬁ

473 H

474 %ﬁ

161

lamblike :—neither one is aggressive, con-
cord is restored. With the addition of &
yen®, this combination stands for dis-
cussing affairs in the spirit just described.
Discussion F in a righteous 3% way.

ling?, To lead, to guide ; to receive.

E yeh*, Radical No. 181, a man—head and body ;
but the meaning often is restricted to the
head. (See No. 105.)

»%' Iing*, Phonetic, an order. (SeeNo. 61.) With
the addition of H, a man, the idea is that
this man or leader gives the order of pro-
cedure.

ts'un', A village, a hamlet.

A mu', Radical No. 75, wood. (Sce No. 36.)

;‘j-'ts'zm‘, Phonetic, hand ; modern meaning—an
inch. (See No. 69.) Originally the char-
acter for village was i, ¢s’un'; but ff has
supplanted the former entirely. As there
is no etymological reason for using the
present character, therefore there is no
logical explanation. In looking over the
North China plains in winter, the
villages seem to be nothing but little
clumps or handfuls ~F of trees. K, and by
keeping this in mind one can remember
how to write the character.

ling*, Separate, besides, extra.

{1 Koi#, Radical No. 30, mouth.
This does not break up into phonetic and
radical, as it is a primitive. In the seal
character it represents a knuckle bone,
Page-172
475 'ﬁ, g

476 %

(joint) extending out from a piece of meat.
In the seal writing it very closely re-
sembles & kua®; but it is not the same.
The knuckle or bone extending beyond the
meat is taken as the symbol for that
which is extra, or something left over.
(W. 118 B.)

shang', To consult, to give advice, to de-

liberate.

B K ou’, Radical No. 30, mouth.

This is a character whose modern radical
does not agree with the original composi-
tion of the character. The []is a house,
and ¥ is words (See No. 10). Between
the lower two elements of yen® the
symbol A ju', to enter, is inserted. This
gives the idea of being away from
others, where two persons can consult
in private. In the oldest writing two
H jih* (sun, day) characters are added,
thus implying that the consultation took
place between two days, at night. To
trade or to do business is a secondary
meaning ; but as bargaining requires much
consultation it is logical.

ch’ o, Silk.
;’ﬁ ssu', Radical No. 120, silk.
)ﬁ chou', Phonetic, complete, (W. 109 C.). This

is a combination of i yung*, useful, and
7 ch?, the old writing of . The idea of
Hi is an arrow piercing the target, ability,
and when } or 7 (which is now chang-
ed arbitrarily to 0 Kou®) is added, the
Page-173
163

idea is ability to hit every target hence,
universally. With the addition of the
radical for silk, it is a simple phonetic in
the character for silk fabric. It may be
that originally silk threads were some-
times mixed with other fibre, and this was
to indicate that it was pure silk.

477
. %, % tsun', Honorable, noble. (W. 47 C.)
Tj‘ ts’un’, Radical No. 41, a hand or measure.
) (See No. 69.)

9 chin* Phonetic, liquor 1 yu’, when the fermen-
tation is over and the dregs are entirely
scparated A pa'. Thus spirits that have
settled and are kept in a wine vessel, only
used on sacrificial occasions. With the
addition of ~f, which in the seal character
is two hands £, we have the idea of offer-
ing good spirits with both hands, rever-
ently to a distinguished guest. Compare
% $ pei* ordinary, vulgar. (W. 46 E;
W. 47 C.) (See No. 526). It is a common
wine glass, presented with the left hand
only. (.

BALLER LESSON XVII.

478 tang', To value, appraise, to compensate.
ﬁ tang®, To be equal to, to pawn, ought. (W.
36 E.)
H ¢ier?, Radical No. 102, a field. (See No. 82.)
&} shang', Phonetic, a house. (See No. 52.) This
character shows that the Chinese have
long been in the habit of pawning. House
Page-174
164

479 ﬁ.' E’«%

and field being of most value, all cther
articles are included; and because in
pawning the value of the article or thing
is that of most importance, therefore the
character stands for ‘“ to be equal to,” to
value.

yit®, To give, with.
B chin', Radical No. 134, a mortar. The .

character is supposed to picture a mor-
tar; but the representation is not strik-
ing. This radical was arbitrarily given,
and has nothing in common with the
original idea.

ﬁ , -5 yii* Phonetic, giving food from a spoon; to give,

B, FR

with. p indicates a full spoon with—in it.
—(at the top) shows that something is
being given away, i.e., removed from the
bowl of the spoon. This character i,
was originally written in this way #, and
is still so abbreviated. But it has suffered
great changes. The hands of the giver &
and the receiver £} have been added.

so, A place, that which, whatsoever.
}5 hu', Radical No. 63, one leaf of a door ; by ex-

tension, a house. (W. 129 A.) In the
seal writing J5 is one half of F§ mén®. (See
No. 5.)

f|“, FQ chin’, Phonctic, an axe ; catty. It hasno pho-

netic significance, because the character
B was made before radicals and phonetics
were adopted. The Shuo Wen says that
this character ff represents the sound of
chopping. It would be more logical to
Page-175
165

say it represents the place where the fuel
is prepared. As this was done near the
door or house F, it has come to mean a
place orshuilding, ff. (W. 128 A.)

481 ] i
kuan®, To care, to control ; a tube.

’f'j' chi?, Radical No. 118, bamboo.

'E’ kuan', Phonetic, an official. (W. 86 C.) (See
No. 310.)
With the addition or 4 chd?, it forms the
character for tube ; and it is reasonable to
suppose that this was the original mean-
ing, and that the meaning to control or
to care for was added by extension, as a
tube controls the flow of water.

s E shao', To burn, to heat, to roast ; fever.
K, W huo’, Radical No. 86, fire. A pictorial repre-
sentation of a flame of fire, in the seal

. writing.

% vao® Phonetic; eminent, great. (See No. 77.)
(W. 81 C.) The phonetic is made up of
# yao’, earth heaped up, and JL wu', a
stool or platform. (W. 29 K.) Thus the
idea of very high is set forth. When the
radical for fire is added, the character

stands for a hig blaze or great heat.

. m% hung®, To cheat, to deceive.
[} Kou’, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
g &% kung', Phonetic, all, together. (W. 241.) In
-z \,tﬁ one old writing four hands are represent-
F§ ed as working in unison. With the ad-
dition of [ Ko’ the idea of unison is
transferred from hands to words. If
several persons assist by saying the same
Page-176
166

thing; deception is easier of accomplish-
ment. (The seal writing is twenty
Pairs of hands. f3.)

= EE keén', To follow: the heel, and, with.

JE @ s, Radical No. 157, the foot. (W. 112 B.)
The Shuo Wen says that the upper part
of this radical is ©; the circle indicates
that the foot is at rest. When motion is
indicated &, JE is used. The lower part is
Ak chil?, to stop. J is now used for the
footin general. &, £ p'1* (shu®), the 103rd
radical, was the counterpart of . The
seal writing shows the § on top of I, a
foot in motion. The use of It seems un-
fortunate ; but in walking the foot is con-
stantly starting T and stopping it. The
present use of E p'i™® (shu®) is a bolt of
cloth. This is undone by turning it over
and over,—a repetition of stopping and
starting Jg. The character % pu, to walk,
also represents stopping J: and starting
. The P is ik chil’, reversed so mean-
ing to start. Thus walking is a repetition
of stopping and starting of the feet. (W.
112 ¢, G)

B, kén' Phonetic, perverse, obstinate. (See No.
223.) (W. 26 L.) In following" there
must be persistence of action, or it is not
accomplished. The fixed or hard part B
of the foot & is the heel §&. ¢ To heel”
is the order to a dog to follow.

485
shu?, To redeem, to atone, to ransom.

H peit, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38.)
Page-177
167

E, § yu* Phonetic, to hawk, to peddle, (W. 79 J.)

* 1. @
5

487%

The modern writing of this character is
identical with ¥ maf’, to sell; but it is
from a different root, and this explains
why so many characters with this phonetic
have a final u instead of ai. The phonetics
K mas® and ¥, mar* are used in only a few
characters as phonetic. The upper part
of this phonetic is & 3% Iu, a mushroom,
aplant ¥ that stands as a man X. Below
the sk there is a H mu', eye, written hori-
zontally — == mu*, a loving eye. With the
addition of the radical H the idea of
hawking is set forth. Hawkers look on
their wares with great regard, and in this
way they induce purchasers to give the
highest price.

With the addition of a second B per* this
is the symbol for to ransom ; in ransom-
ing the full value must be paid.

mien*, The face, a surface, a side.
Radieal No. 176, the face. (W. 160 B.)
This radical is made up of i shou’, the
head, and a primitive U which is the out-
line of a face. Tle ¥, while said to be
the face, is nose H, all save the—dash
above. The nose is the most prominent
part of the face.
.

kai', Should, ought, to owe.  *
ven®, Radical No. 149, words. (See No. 10.)

=
B
z hai* Phonetic, nine to eleven P.M.,—a symbol
in the horary cycle. (W. 69 K.) (See
Page-178
168

No. 180) When combined with & yen*

it has only simple phonetic force.

b XE hua!, Flowers ; to spend.

H ts’ao® Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22.)

.ﬂ: hua', Phonetic, to change. (W. 30, D.)
Originaliy £ was Y &, man tumbled
heels over head ; i.e. changed and later the
radical A jén® was added. The character
enters into the composition of % Iao®, old.
(See No. 209). When ¢s’a0®, is added to
{t hua', it forms the symbol for flower.
A flower is that part of a plant which is
strikingly different or changed from the
other parts.

— ﬁ pP, That, the other, there.

,/f ch’ih* Radical No. 60 ; a step, to go.

& p'’, Phonetic, skin. (W. 43 H.) (See No.

224.) This is the 107th radical. It is
here used as a simple phonetic.
The radical %, going, is chosen for the
demonstrative pronoun ‘‘that,” because
it is distant and one must go £ to it.
¥& ¢'su® here, has Jt: stop, as the radical—
one stops and- that object now becomes
““ this.” (cf 491.)

2 %ﬂ k&', To cut, to hack, to reap.
1, )] tao', Radical No. 18, a knife. (See No. 37.)
% hat', Phonetic, to injures (F. 97 E.) (See
No. 436.) ’
This when combined with JJ tao' is a
suggestive phonetic, as in reaping violence
has to be done to the standing grain. To
Page-179
169

reap was probably the first meaning of
this character.

491
.IH:. 'g(‘ t'zu’, This, here. (W.112 A))
_[h chib’, Radical No. 77, to stop. (Chalfant,

Plate VIIL) Chalfant has an old writing
which represents a plant withered from
lack of moisture.

k., (( p# Phonetic, to turn one’s self around ; the
21st radical. (W. 26 B.) The modern
writing of this radical is identical with &
Y hua', change, (W. 30 D) ; but they are
quite different in the seal writing. *“ This
3t is the place to stop Ik and turn & is
a convenient mmnemonic for Mk, and ik
chib?® is a logical radical, as one going to
a distant object, (% designated as that,
there,) stops on arrival and may now say
this, here Jb. (cf. 489).

4o E pien*, Convenient, advantageous.
A4, \ jér’, Radical No. 9, man.
W g kéng', Phonetic, to change, to improve. (W.
! 41 A). This comes from [ ping®, a fire
burning a house, calamity. When X p'u,
a right hand using a rod, a sign of control,
is added, the fire, instead of being a de-
stroyer, is a convenience, an advantage.
(See No. 226).
When the radical for man is added the
idqa is set forth that affairs are adjusted
sojthat men are satisfied, get advantage.

493 . /
% sui®, To follow, to accompany.
Page-180
170

—?—, IS g fu* Radical No, 170, a mound. (W. 86 A.)

“m

495 Eﬁ

In the seal writing it represents a terraced
embankment ; by extension earthworks,
embankments, etc.

é sui®, Phonetic, to follow (W. 46 D.). This

phonetic has its root in [ to*, to build
earthworks about a city in order to be-
siegeit. The 7z left hand repeated indicates
that the enemy is in great numbers, and
that the action is contrary to the action of
the besieged. In 5 (meat cut up) one of
the # tso’, is replaced by A jou'. This
may have been suggested on account of the
mutilation of the vanquished ! With the
addition of i_ cho, the character indicates
following around the ramparts, per-
haps in order to avoid being wounded,
(mutilated).

chia', To add to, to increase. (W. 53 D.)
j] It*, Rad. No. 19, strength, muscle. (See No.

212.)

While I K ou®, occupies the place of the
phonetic, it has no phonetic value. The
idea is: first give the order, O and if it
is not heeded follow it up with chastise-
ment (muscular punishment) 7.

p'ad’, To run.
E tsu?, Radical No. 157, the foot.
@ pao', Phonetic, to wrap up. (W. 54 B.)

This is made up of *J @ pao', a person
bending over to enfold an object (See No.
80). With the addition of B, & it means
to wrap up. The primitive meaning was
Page-181
496 %

497 3

498 Iﬁ

 

e

L)

171

gestation. In ¥ the £ is a simple phone-
tic, but when one runs the feet 2 may be
wrapped 41 in a cloud of dust.

fei', To waste, to expend.

B pei!, Radical No. 154, shell, precious. (See No.

88.)

# # fu™ Phonetic, not. Two rods, bound together

MR

which bend in opposite directions, there-
fore opposition, negation. In the charac-
ter & it is a suggestive phonetic,—to look
on valuables (money) as if they were of
no value ; thus to waste them.

t'ung', Through, universal.

3 cho
yung’® Phonetic,’ blossoming. 8 han, a bud,

* Radical No. 162, to walk. (See No. 10.)

opening flower (W. 55 K). The phonetic
of this phonetic is A} with the addition of
i cho', to go, the idea is that it is open
in all directions. This character was on
all “cash” to indicate that it was current
coin, passing everywhere, jfi47.

k&, A door screen, an ante-room, feminine

apartments.

Fﬂ mén’, Radical No. 169, a door. (See No. 5.)

% ke,

Phonetic, each, to be separate. (See No.
272.) (W.31B.) This phoneticimplied
separation ; and when the radical P mén®,
(door) is added, the idea of separate
apartments is obtained.

BALLER, LESSON XVIII

Ticn®, To connect. (W. 167 B).
Page-182
172

500

501 ﬁ]

: cho' Radical No. 162, to walk. (See No. 10.)

$ ch'@!,

¢', Phonetic, cart or carriage. (See No.
136.)
Without phonetic force. The Shuo Wen
says that the character represents a string
of carriages moving along as if connected.
Thus the idea of to conmnect is obtained.
Carts # moving leave a continuous
track, not broken like the track of a man.

fan', To transgress, to offend.

z ¥ ﬁ ch’iian® Radical No. 94, a dog. The seal

character is a pictorial representation of
a dog. (W.134 A.) -(See No. 424.)

han® Phonetic; to blossom, expansion, erup-

tion. (W.55K). (See No. 497.) This
combination of radical and phonetic is
very apt. What could be more suggestive
of heedlessness than a dog in a flower
garden ?—unless it were a bull in a china
shop.

tao®, To fall over.

/f | }\ jén?, Radical No. 9, man.

ﬂ tao', Phonetic, to arrive at. (See No. 88.)

The original meaning of this phonetic may
have been similar to the expression “ The
hangman’s noose will be his end ”; asa
sword was used for executions, the man
is prostrate when the knife descends. The
present meaning may have been acquired
by extension.

When the executioner’s axe JJ arrives ¥
the man A falls .
Page-183
178

502 N kan®, To influence, to affect. (W.71 F.)
> iy hsin', Radical No. 61, heart.
Ja%, hsien® Phonetic, to bite (modern meaning—
all). A wound & made by the mouth 1.
(W.71P.) )& wu', a halberd. & bsit', is a
wound inflicted by a halberd, the -dash,
being the wound. Where [1 ko1 is added,
the character is used for a wound inflict-
ed by teeth. This kind of wound is most
painful ; therefore when i is added it
forms an appropriate symbol for moving
the emotions. This is the character which
is used for physiological stimulation.

. %, rﬁi p'ang?, By the side of, others, border, lateral.
ji’ ij fang', Radical No. 70, square. (W. 117 A.)
It is supposed to be two boats lashed
together so that they form a square
pontoon.

Fh, ﬁ p’ang® Phonetic. A space with three bound-
aries. The 2 shang?, is the top, and the
two lower lines are the side limits. The
radical 5 fang', was added later, and it
conveys no additional meaning, as the
sides are the parts of the character on
which emphasis is laid. cf. #.

%% W Bl it Must, certainly. (W, 18 G.)
oy hsint, Radical No. 61, heart. (See No. 18.)
This character has heen so mutilated in
its modern writing that all of its etymo-
logy is lost ; but a glance at the seal writ-
ing enables one to understand the mean-
ing. A pa' eight, forms the two sides, and
Page-184
174

506 m

506

N

507 %

means to divide; between these two strokes
is a dart. The arrow must strike the
target in a certain spot, like the arrow
shot by William Tell. It seems primarily
to have been an interjection pointing
out a strict order. The placing of this
character under the radical for heartis
a mistake.

sui', Though, even if.
ﬁ chui' Radical No. 172, a short-tailed hird,

B

Jjan

(See No. 21.)

The phonetic of this character is not com-
mon, and is not found in the dictionaries.
Williams says the character is composed
of g wer, only, and # ch'ung®, a worm,
and that it was a lizard. Others say it
is aninsect % with a special head [1. This
meaning has long since been lost, and the
character now means though.

*, Yes; still, nevertheless, on the other
hand. (W. 65 G.)

K W huo’, Radical No. 86, fire. (See No. 482.)

Bk Jan

* Phonetic, dog meat. From W jou', and
R ch'itan’, dog. With the addition of the
radical for fire the character originally
was used for roasted dog meat; but it is
now used as a conjunction, and con-
sequently there is no logical warrant for
its present use.

chi*, Since ; a sign of the past.
% wu® Radical No. 71, without. (W.61C.) A

lame man J& wang', who makes an effort,
Page-185
509 ﬁp

2

2
2,

=]

175

but meets with an obstacle — which he is
unable to overcome. While the above is
the radical under which Kang Hsi places
this character, it has nothing to do with
it. Itis X chi* (W. 99 E), to breathe in,
or to swallow which is the reverse of 4t
ch’ien', to breathe out ; but as this is not a
radical it was placed under wa®. Cf. 273.

S bhsiang' Phonetic, boiled rice. (W. 26 L.) &

is a kettle, and the dash —is its contents ;
L is the spoon with which it is eaten.
(See No. 75.)

‘This is an endeavor to put into pictorial
form an intangible condition, and there-
fore belongs to a class of characters which
is often disappointing ; but here we have
an exception. The J is to swallow. The
remainder of the character is boiled rice,
a mouthful or a meal swallowed is some-
thing finished or ended, hence it is taken
as the sign of the past.

hs*, Pleasure, joy. (W.165 B.)
K ou®, Radical No. 30, mouth.
W chow' Phonetic, a drum on a stand, the &

2

representing the head of the drum. Above
are the ornaments. This phonetic has no
phonetic value. When 7 Ko’ is added
it stands for singing. Thus the character
represents vocal and instrumental music,
and by extension, joy.

ch'iiel’, Yet, still, to reject. (W.17 H.)
]] chieh® Radical No. 26, a joint. (See No. 42.)

It has the idea of restraint, as it is part
Page-186
510 %‘ %

511

512 m

of a seal,—a seal prevents forgery. The
meaning of joint may have originated
owing to this being only a section of the
seal.

@,@ ch’iao* Phonetic, the upper lip; the flesh &

above the mouth 0 Kou’. This phonetic
when J chieh® is added means to restrain
one’s desires; to reject, because nothing
more is desired. We speak of ‘“keeping
a stiff upper lip”’ when undergoing that
which requires dctermination.

, wer®, The tail of animals. (W. 100 B.)
)2' shik!, Radical No. 44; a person in the re-

cumbent posture. (See No. 449.)

The phonetic in the seal character is %
mao® inverted ; but the scribes have writ-
ten it in the regular way in the modern
character. Inverted it indicated that the
hair was growing downward.

huan', Pleased, rejoiced, happy.
k chien', Radical No. 76, to exhale; to owe.

(See No. 273.)

g g kuan' Phonetic, the heron. (See No. 428).

When a heron has just swallowed a
fish it frequently emits a scream of
satisfaction ; and this may be why heron
# and to exhale /¢ are used to express
rejoicing.

plen', A queue; to plait.
& ssi' Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8.)
pien* Phonetic. Two # hsin'; criminals (W.

102 H.) 3 hsii! is composed of ¥ jer’, a
Page-187
513 ;E

514 g

515 m

177

serious offence, and & shang* (™ old writ~
ing); to offend one’s superior. In the
phonetic two criminals are supposed to be
mutually incriminating one another ; each
accusation. is met with a retort of the
other’s deeper guilt. With the addition
of the radical for silk the character is used
for, to plait, as the two outer strands are
repeatedly thrown across to the opposite
side. In all compounds it has the idea of
reciprocal action.

BALLER, LESSON XIX.

pien*, Everywhere, the whole.

3. cho' Radical No. 162, walking. (See No. 10.)

E pier, Phonetic, ‘a tablet, or signboard ; thin
and flat ; an inscription hung over a door.
(W. 156 D.) With the addition of 5_
cho', the idea of universal is conveyed, as
go where you will, the tablets are seen
over doors.

jao®, To forgive, to pardon, to overlook.

| shil?, Radical No. 184, food. (See No. 75.)

% yao?, Phonetic, eminent, great; earth heaped,
on a high base. (See No. 77,) With the
addition of & shil?, the first meaning was
the abundance of food. Thus by extension
to forgive. If one has plenty & of food &
(the first article used in barter) he should
forgive % a debt to one in want.

ma#, To bury ; to lie in wait.
Page-188
178

516@}&

t'd’, Radical No. 82, earth. (See No. 13.)

g I,

Phonetic, -a: Chinese mile; old meaning,
farmland, village,'(W. 149 D.) (See No.
339). Because '« is added, ‘it is re-
asonable to suppose:that the first use was
trenches for military purposes. These cut
up the land as if for farming, only the
trenches were deeper and longer.

chur?, To allow, to perl:mt exactly, certainly.
A 3 ping', Radical No. 15, ice. The seal writing

represents the icé crystals that form when
water is freezing. (W.17 A.)

7k ,/ shui®, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79.)

517 -;%z

$ shun® Phonetic, a falcon, which always comes

to roost. on one branch and is sure in its
movements, éwov;)ping\qn its prey. (W.
168B.) #:isa contractionof #. Thus %
shiur®, is taken as a sign of certainty.
Water 7K or ice “is the most level sub-
stance in the world.! Formerly # chur’,
was used as a symbol for weighing: the
scale pans were alv\;éys (% shun®) even or
level (& shui® or ] ping'). This-old
meaning ' is obsalet ‘and the present
meamng is certamly, or to allow. The
1heaning to allow came about thus: when
one applies for permission to do a certain
thing, he must assemble reasons sufficient
to equal the”réasoﬁé opposing this mode
of action before e ¢an obtain the desired
permxsston. i 2

 

t'ar?, To chat, to converse.

% yer?, Radical No.' 149, lwords. (See No..10.)
Page-189
g

519 E

520 ,FE':

¢

179

éﬁ yer® Phonetic, flames ‘rising. (W. 126 D.)
Flames that rise high. This is indicated,
as there is one fire above another. When
the radical & yen® is added, the idea is
that in conversing words follow each
other, or pileup like flames, and one be-
comes interested (warm) in the process.
(See'No. 178.)

K ung?®, Lest, fearful.

A hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart.

m K’ ung® Phonetic, to take hold of, to undertake.
(W. 11 F.)' From % W (abbreviated) ;
to take an instrument in the hand » in
order to do work L kung'. When heart
i hsin', is added, the one who has under-
taken ‘a piece” of work 3 Kung® has
trepidation i hsin' lest he will be unable
to accomplish it.

huo*, Goods, wares.
pet*, Radical No. 154, money, valuables. (See
© No.38.)

'fb hua*, Phonetic, to change ; A man changed to
k. When B pef, is added, the etymology
is goods which are to be exchanged for
money. Articles not for sale are not .

hst*, To regard, to love, to be sparing of.

‘l‘ iy hsin', Radical No. 61, heart. (See No. 18.)

g hs® Phonetic, strips of meat .dried in the sun.
(Sez No. 222.) These strips of meat ap-
pear shriveled- and . worthless, ‘but they
are nutritious. With the radical for heart,
Page-190
180

iy hsin' added the idea is: one should be
sparing in the use of the prepared meat.
(W. 17 J.).

S &l‘-{ shut, To forgive, to excuse.

) hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No.18.)

ﬁu Jju®, Phonetic, like. (See No. 325.) To speak
with womanly skill in conformity to the
circumstances, and the disposition of the
man (husband) she desires to wheedle.
When iy hsin?, is added, the idea is to act
in accordance with the higher impulses of
one’s nature, or in harmony with the de-
sires of the suppliant, i.e., forgive.

4
. ﬁ, 'fg_ fi!, To return, to repeat. (W. 75 1.)
,f ch'ik* Radical No. 60, a step. (See No. 10.)
ig fu* Phonetic, to return to quarters. This
phonetic is derived from 3 % kuo', walls,
fortifications. The seal writing o in the
center is the city, and the two smaller
circles,—one above and one below,—are
the gates, each surmounted by a tower.
In % the lower gate and tower are re-
placed by & chil’, to walk single file.
With the addition of £, nothing is added
to the meaning; thus the 60th radical is
here a redundancy. To return to quarters
was the original meaning.

< g mu’, A grave.
t'u®, Radical No. 32, earth. (See No. 13.)

% v mu* Phonetic, the sun setting ; to disappear.
Las (W.78 G.) The sunis seen through the
vegetation, ¥ mang® setting in the west.
Page-191
524*

525 Q

526 m

* wet",

181

When ¢, is added, the idea is that the
corpse disappears in the earth,—is buried
in the grave.

, Not yet, not. " (W. 120 C.)

7'( mut, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 36.)

The phonetic is a curved line in the seal
writing ; and contrasting this character
with % R mo*, the highest branches or
twigs of a tree, it may be that in 5k the
tree had not yet attained its full growth.
In 3% the top or end is emphasized — In
5 it is small, hidden, not yet grown.

1én’, A-grave, a tomb.

+ v,
¥ o

pei’,
A shib
R e

Radical No. 32, earth.

Phonetic, ornaments. (W. 78 F.) # huf®,
vegetation, and E pei*, shells. Plants
and shells were the first articles used in
decorating.. When + ¢, is added, it
means a grave. When burying the dead
the grave is more or less elaborately de-
corated. .

A stone tablet, a tombstone.

?, Radical No. 112, a stone. (See No. 4.2.)
Phonetic, ordinary, mean. (W. 46 E.)
Originally this phonetic was a drinking
vessel which had a handle on the left side,
and which was held with the left hand f£.
There was another drinking vessel, the

® tsur’, this was used only for. the sac-
rifices, hence its meaning, honorable. (W.
47 C). The % pei', was a common, per-
manent thing, not something only seen on
sacrificial occasions. Hence its use with
Page-192
182

% to represent a permanent tablet. cf
No. 477.

o %: hsit®, To promise, to allow, perhaps.
yer?, Radical No. 149, words, - (See No. 10.)
tF' 4_\ wi, Phoneﬁc, noon, (W.130 A.) Chalfant
’ and Wieger give different explanations of
this symbol. Chalfant appears to con-
form more nearly to the meaning imparted
by this phonetic. The seal writing repre-
sents a noon mark drawn from the ridge
pole down through the gable. When the
shadow coincides with this mark-it is
noon. When word § is added, the mean-
ing is that ones words afe exact 4, and
will be fulfilled;—a’ promise -which one
cannot depend on is no promise.

528 .
m kat*, Generally, for the most part. Original
meaning—a striker to level off the grain
' from the top of the measure.

mut, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 36.)
% chi*, Phonetic, to swallow ; (modern l_neaning
—since, already). (See No. 507.) The
striker pushed off all the grain which was
higher than the top of the measure,—all
that cannot.be held inside of the measure;

thus the idea of sum, general, average.

. ﬁ, kuet', Rule, custom., (W. 131 F.)
o R chien®, Radical No. 147, to see, to perceive.
(SeeNo.85.) |
FR. ™ fi#, Phonetic, an adult. This should be %
_shil®, an arrow {See No. 100) ; but owing
Page-193
530?3

531 m

183
to the seal writing of % fu' and & shik®,

‘I 'being very similar (7 fu' % shil®) % was

substituted for.%&. Neither of these pho-
netics: has any phonetic significance, as
the -character ‘is old, having been in
use before the system of phonetics was
well established. The significance of the
origihéf ‘comibination was: in order to
conforin to rule one must act as when
practicing archiery,—observe R the target,
and adjust the arrow according to re-
quirements. To watch B the workmen
%, and keep them to the rules #.

huo?, Living, lively ; miovable.
JK, 3 shuf, Radical No, 85, water. (See No. 79.)
5 S kuo® Phonetic, to hold in one’s mouth; (W.

114 C.), abbreviated to & she’. This
phonetic comes from a different writing of
K t® 5 pronounced kuo® fixed ; (sce No.
257). In  kuo® the + shik® is deleted.
The idea is that something is permanent
in the mouth. When water was added
this formed' the character for living. This
character showed that the physical con~
ditions were early studied : ‘they observed
that moisture in the mouth was a sign of
health and life. A moist sk tongue & is
lively # is an easy mnemonic.

Iiiqlz‘,‘ Siightly, a little, in general, a sum-

mary. Original meaning — boundaries
that separate every % ko', field | t'ien’.
(W.81B) . .

"M} ¢ién*, Radical No. 102, a ﬂeld’,ﬁ" (See No. 82.)
Page-194
184

532 'gt

533%

S%Hﬁ

535 *{J

% ko‘ Phonetic, each, every. (See No. 272.)
The original meaning of W Iieh', was
logical ; but owing to the tendency of the
farmers to encroach little by little on the
land of their neighbors, it has obtained a
new meaning, of few, slightly.

ai’, Exclamation of disgust, Alas !

[ ¥ ou’, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
j{ ar*, Phonetic, artemisia, a plant. This phone-
tic'is made up of the two blades of shears
X 1 (W. 39 B) and # ts’ac’, grass. Itis
used here with K’ou’ as a simple phonetic.

ya', An interjection.
[1 Ko, Radical No. 30, the ‘mouth..
g3 ya*, Phonetic, the teeth. (See No. 97.) Itis
the 92nd radical. It is used here with
Kou® as a simple phonetic.

BALLER, LESSON XX.

t'0', To cast off, to abandon ; to undress.

P, B jor', Radical No. 130, flesh ; (See No. 133.)
ﬁ yiieh, tuf’, Phonetlc, to exchange, to barter.

Original meaning, to dispel grief and give
pleasure,- (See. No, 72) (W. 29 D). The
Shuo Wen does not explain this combina—
tion, but if one recalls how pleasant it is
‘to throw off clothing when over warm it
may aid in the writing of the character.

yiieh*, To bind, a covenant, an agreement.
% ssu', Radical No. 120, silk.” (See No. 8.)
Page-195
536,'%

18

) shao?, Phonetic, a spoon. (W. 54 H.) (See

No. 6.)

The Shuo Wen is s:lcnt on this character.
In order to aid the memory as to its con—
struction one should remember that at
the conclusion of a treaty or contract
there are presents of % silk and a feast.
4] shao®, spoon, stands for the feast.

chieh or ke? Toseparate ; divided by apartl—

tion.

—%, B fu*, Radical No. 170, a mound. (See No 493)

.

537%%

= L
Ak

¢! Phonetic, a large three-legged caldron; a
statesman ; radical No. 193. (W. 155
A.) This being large, it differed from or-
dinary utensils ; and with the addition of
a radical which indicates lofty, it forms a

chatracter which suggests separation or a
removal from the common class.

shan', Good, moral. (W. 73 D.)

3 K ou®, Radical No. 30, mouth.

This character, in its modern form, will
not break up into radical and phonetic.
Kang Hsi has used O Ko’ instead of &
yer?, word, for the radical. It had its
root in a character composed of two &
yer? characters, i.e. 3 ching', to dispute.
It is now often written #%: and when ¥
yang® was written above # it implied
that harmony or good feeling was restor-
ed after a quarrel. (See # ', righteous-
ness, No. 471.) As this character was
complicated it was abbreviated to its
present form by the scribes. One E yen*
Page-196
186

538

= =

 

\b

T

has been discarded, and the seal writing
is partially followed in the one retained.

o', Evil, wicked. Read wu', it means to hate.
AL hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. |
wm ya*, Phonetic, ugly. (W. 82 H.) It is sup-

posed to be two hunchback men talking
to each other. When heart is added, the
person’s heart takes the ugly characteris-
tics, i.e., evil, wicked. !

ch'i%, He, she, it. (W. 70 C.) B
J\ pa!, Radical No. 12, eight. :

ﬁ:-u- ch’i Phonetic, a §ieve, (W. 70 'A.) The

540 ﬁ

15

phonetic is a pictorial representation of
the object. In the seal character the
bottom part of this character is JG wi',
a stand, and not A pa'. This character
lost its original meaning, and is borrowed
for a personal pronoun.

pei‘, Grieved, sorry, sad.
iL» Bsin', Radical No. 61, heart.
I fei!, Phonetic, not. (W. 170 A.) Radical No.

175.

This combination is not explained in the
Shuo Wen, but the etymology is not
difficult to trace. It is something which
is not gk fe!, according to one’s desire i
hsin' ; therefore it causes sorrow.

shang', To wound, to injure, distress.

4, N\ jer’, Radical No. 9. a man.

g shang', Phonetic, to wound. (W. 101 B.)

‘To wound with a spear. ¥ shang', was
the original writing. The & yang’, —
Page-197
542

5

“4 6

187

which. means to expand, glorious, the rays
21 of the sun, rising above the horizon B
H, — was phonetic.

Now all that remains of the & shih®, are
the two strokes, ~ above % yang’, the
radical A jen?, takes its place on the
left.

he*, To fdrgive, to pardon.
ch’ik, Radical No.. 155, a reddish carnation

color. (W.60 N.)

It is composed of Xk ta, a man, and Xk
huo®, fire. It may mean the blush of
shame, or it may mean the flush of ‘anger.

3% p'u* Phonetic, to rap, to tap (W. 43 D.) The

right hand holding a rod. It is the
66th radical. It has here no phonetic
significance. It generally indicates action.
Here it may indicate the red, which an
official marks on a petition for pardon
when the petition is granted, to strike %
red #,—to pardon #.

mien®, To avoid, to escape, to remit, to for-

give. (W.106 A.) (See No. 107.)

JL Jjer?, Radical No. 10 man.

This character does not break up into
radical and phonetic. It is old, and ac-
cording to Chalmers it represents a man
trying to hide himself by drawing himself
into his .clothing, thus avoiding being
seen.

cHP, An interrogative particle. (W. 165 E,)

It is a drum (not § tod', a dish, although
Page-198
188

545 %

546

547,%

the writing is identical) which was beaten
with the left hand. The drum which was
beaten with the right hand was written
thus 8. The upper stroke is the drum
head, the © is the drum, and the & the
stand. Observe the character ¥k taf,
foolish. A dog R is beside himself when a
drum is beaten. As this character has long
since lost its original meaning, owing to
this kind of a drum being discarded, the
character has been.adopted for the above
meaning.

kar®, To dare, to venture. (W. 146 H.)
% p'u'Radical No. 66, to strike.

The phonetic is a bear § B. neng’,
able, is a bear, and the right part of
the character represents the paws. (See
No. 357). But in # the paws are sup-
pressed to make room for the radical; a
person who has the courage to strike a
bear, therefore brave.

chi, A foundation ; property.
:l: £, Radical No. 32, the earth.
i ck'?, Phonetic, it. (See No. 539.)

The Shuo Wen does not treat of this com-
bination. As =+ #'u?, earth, is below 3
ch', it may be that the inventor of the
character intended to show that the earth
betieath it (a structure) is the foundation,
or the place where the foundation must
be laid ; its 3 earth 4. —_

tut, To oversee, to superintend.
Page-199
189

H @ mu', Radical No. 109, the eye. (W.158 A.)
In the oldest writing two eyelids and the
pupil are represented ; later the pupil was
suppressed.

Fﬁl, ﬁﬂ shu’, Phonetic, to collect § beans #. The
character is supposed to represent a stalk
# of beans with two pods attached. This
meaning is now obsolete. With the addi-
tion of H mu'it implies that there is a
person who oversees the bean picking ; and
the character now is used to mean over-
seer, and is borrowed for uncle, a father’s
younger brother.

= ﬁ kuat*, Strange, to blame.
AL, "' hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart.
é. i kuai* Phonetic, to till the ground, a hand &
. over the earth +. (W.81A.)

The produce of the ground when tilled
struck the ancient Chinese as remarkable,
and when the radical heart i is added,
the character is used to convey the idea
of strange or abnormal.

549
ﬁ shu', A comb.
7|C mu', Radical No. 75, wood.

ﬁ t'u® Phonetic, a child being born, with long
hair. (W. 94 F.) From % (W. 94 E);
the birth of a child, head presenting: the
most favorable position. In the above,
hair is added, and it is the striking part
of the character. With the addition of
the radical for wood 4k mu, it forms the
character for comb, as combs in China
are made of wood. & = F inverted.
Page-200
190

550 j% she®, To give alms, to bestow, to part with, to
reject. g
+ ¥ shor?, Radical No. 64, the hand. (SeeNo. 53.)
% she*, Phonetic, a cottage. (See No. 40.)
‘When thie radical for hand:is added, it
forms the character to give. Beggars go
to houses in order to get food.

o ﬁB, @ ming, Lige; fate ; destiny ; a command. (W,
14 1.
B3 X oi?, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
,%. Iing!, Phonetic, an order, a law. (See No. 61.)
When the order is stamped 4 it is
published or made known I ; an order
or command by word -of mouth.

552
é ch’iian’, Entire, perfect, all, the whole. (W.
15 B.) )
Jju', Radical No. 11, to enter. (See No. 35.)
As this character has been placed under
A ju*, it is not now possible to break it
up into radical and phonetic. The more
plansible explanation is that it is compos-
ed of A chi and . kung'. It is also writ-
ten £and & the work 1 has been com-
pleted A. In making a chair or other
article, when all the parts were finished
and put together A the article is finished.

508 E,% ying**, Ought, proper, respond, fulfill
“i> hsin', Radical No. 61, heart.
m ying', Phonetic, the falcon, now written
) (W.168].) It is made up of J~ yer', a
house - here indicating domesticated - and
"4 chui' and A jen®: a tame bird which
Page-201
=

555%

556

191

serves man. These birds have long been
used for hunting small game. With the
addition of heart the character means;—
to answer, or obey, to do what one feels
i is proper. This meaning is placed on
the character as the falcon fulfills the de-
sire i of its master in seizing game.

0%, Buddha.
jen?, Radical No. 9, man.
% fi* Phonetic, not. (W. 87 D). Two bent

rods or bows so tied together that their
force is neutralized ; therefore they stand
for not. * This combination not g man A
may have been selected by the Buddhists
in order to emphasize that Buddha was
a supernatural being. Another writing is
18 =75 @ A Western man.

yeh?, A final particle. (W. 146 E).
:ﬂ: er®, Radical No. 128, the ear. (See No. 71).
B ls 7, Phonetic, a city. (See No. 11). No phone-

tic value. This character is said to he 8
hsieh® arbitrarily changed. It originally
was the name of a city in the eastern part
of Shantung. It now means depraved,
erroneous. At present these two charac-
ters are entirely distinct ¥§ is only used as
a final particle.

sir', To glean, to revive. (W.121 D).

&

0%, Radical-No. 115, growing grain. In the

seal writing the ear or head of grain is,
owing to its weight, hanging to one side.
(W.121 A.)
Page-202
192

£y,

Phonetic; a fish. This is radical 195,
(See No. -284). There is no explanation
of this character’ which throws any light
on its etymology. To the present day
gleaning after the field is reaped is an im~
portant affair in the rural districts. Itis
possible that formerly the fishermen left
the small fish after they had removed from
their nets the larger ones, but the present
custom is to remove every thing for them-
selves. Both fish # and crops# when
dying for lack of moisture may be revived
fif by water.

57 k) ciel, To cut, to slice. (W. 33 A).

tao'

£ ch'f

, Radical No. 18, a knife.

, Phonetic, seven. (See No. 32). This
may have been selected as the phonetic as
the permanent, incisor teeth appear about
the seventh year and these are the cutting
teeth.

 

BALLER, VOCABULARY NO. IV.

558
’fE p'ing®, A vase, a jug, a bottle.

q wa®, Radical No. 98, earthen ware. (W. 145

A). Chalfant on Plate XIV, has a very
plausible explanation of the origin of this
radical. He believes it to be a pictorial
representation of the tiles on the roof.
Originally written - and afterward
changed to 3.

;F ) # ping*, Phonetic, two men with shields, march- °

ing side by side, even, united. Simple
phonetic. (W.115B.) (See No. 235).
Page-203
193

559 ,R-‘: /fﬁ\\ liang!, Clear, luminous, bright. (W, 75 C). -~

a. to

u® Radical No. 8, a cover or roof.

This character has been given a radica
which prevents its being divided into
radical and phonetic. There is an old
writing }%, 4% and it is thus explained :—
The men A at the capital, 3 ; those who
are advisers to the Emperor, are more
enlightened than other men. The present
writing of the character is relatively
modern, the upper part is from # kao',
high, referring to the capital and man is
substituted for the lower O in kao'. The
etymology is the same as that of the older
writing.

560
& ping’, Soldics, military. (W. 47 D).
}\ pa', Radical No. 12, eight.
ﬁ chin', Phonetic, an ax or battle-ax. (W.128

A). The lower part of & is 1ot pa' buta
contraction of F - kung® thus in the seal
writing two hands are wielding a battle-
ax.

s *E t'ui', To push ; to shirk ; to refuse.

T

ou®, Radical No. 64, the hand.

ui' Phonetic, a short tailed bird. Radical
No.172. (See No. 21). The Shuo Wen
is silent as to the etymology of this
character ; but it may be that it was sug-
gested by poultry raising. When the feed:
trough is surronnded by those first on the
spot, the tardy bird pushes and shoves
until it reaches the desired place.
Page-204
194
SGZH**
,‘*

¥,

563 %' gﬂ

K. R huo?, Radical No. 86, fire. (See No. 47).
g& g shu® Phonetic, who, which, what; but origin-

564%

TR

ts'ai’, Material, stuff.
my', Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 36).
ts’ai’, Phonetic, talents, power, genius. This

phonetic originally was used for material
suitable for building, but gradually it
was adopted for its present meaning.
The upper horizontal stroke.in the seal
writing, indicates the large branches
of a tree: the second horizontal stroke is
the ground (W.96 A). A tree when of
proper size for building purposes is spoken
of as # t'saf®, before it attains to that
distinction it is referred to as B4k p'P
ch’af?, fire wood. -Financial power is B
t'sar”.  Wood & was one of the first sub-
stances ¥ worked upon by man,

shou?, Ripe ; experienced ; versed in; cooked;

intimate.

ally, a lamb of proper size and condition
for roasting. (W. 75 E). The right side
of the phonetic &, R chr’, implies holding
the animal. (See No. 139) H, %, Ch'un®
is &' lamb large enough to be offered as a
present E, to a superior %. The writing
has been' contracted to the present form.
(W. 76,E8). With the addition of m fire,
the idea of cooked is set forth.

1,

kut, A girl. Hunc
mi*, Radical No. 38, a.woman. (See No. 16).

.8 &, Phonetic; old.. (See No. 17). This isa
Page-205
565

195

simple phonetic. (W. 24, F). Itisnota
fortunate combination for “girl” in a
country where, formerly, a girl twenty

years of age and unmarried ‘was almost
.unheard of.

niang?, A girl, a woman, a mother.
#, ﬁ nif’, Radical No. 38, a woman. (See No. 16).
B E é liang®, Phonetic, good. (See No. 445). Because

this phonetic sets forth respect, dignity and
sagacity its combinations also partake of
same. Mother #t is a good £ woman %&.

566
%, % shih!, To lose; to slip; to err.

KA ta'

Radical No. 37, great. (See No. 113).
This radical was arbitrarily given to the
character and .has no further use than to
aid in looking it up in the native diction—
aries. In the ancient writing a hand is
seen with the \ #, which indicates slip-
ping away or shooting. There is no re-
semblance, in the ancient writing, to an
arrow 4 as there is in the modern form.
This is an old character and it has no
phonetic. (W. 48 B).

. 'ft chang*, To rely on ; to fight. .
/f A jén?, Radical No. 9, man.

I. 5 cha

ng’, Phonetic, ten feet. Under thfe Chou
Dynasty this was about six and a half
English feet. When a man A is accom-

- panied by a person of over six feet 4 in

height (revised measurement), it gives
assurance of not being molested. (W. 32
F). One can rely on ff a ten foot 3 man
A to'fight ff. (W, 24 E)..
Page-206
196

liao', Material ; ingredients; to estimate.

9568
. *S} >‘l» % tou®, Radical No. 68, a peck measure, a dip-

per. (See No. 117).

*}K mi®, Phonetic, rice, used ‘of other grains. (See

569 -/2‘\, (&\

No..47). - The phonetic has no phonetic
significance, Grain is measured with a 3}
tou®, but chaff and straw, on account of
their being of less value are not thus
measured. According to the make up of
this character materials of worth are ¥
HLiao*. (W.98 B).

kung?, Public ; fair, just ; male.

,‘k ri pa', Radical No. 12, eight. Because the two

parts of this radical, in the old writing,
are similar in construction and are not
united, it was early adopted as the symbol
for separation.

A\, & ssii* Phonetic, private. The ancient writing re-

570]]_,t

presented a silkworm which has shut
itself into its cocoon. By extension it
was used for private, selfish. (W. 89 A).
This symbol has no phonetic value. The
character % implies the right division /A
of private i property for the benefit of
the public. ) '

t'u®*?, To spit, to vomit.

A O Kou', Radical No. 30, the mouth.

K

j: t'u", Phenetic, the soil, earth, place, local.

From mouth [ to the earth , to spit.

- Kan®, To hack, to chop; to throw stones at.
A shik’, Radical No. 112, a stone. (See No. 42).
Page-207
572

573 ad.

574% zé\

197

x‘ 792 ch’ien', Phonetic, to breathe out. (See No.273).

This character} may date back to the
stone age when axes were made of stone.
If so the combination of radical and
phonetic is appropriateY; with the steel ax
choppers often make audible expiration
with every stroke ; how much more diffi-
cult would chopping be if a stone ax were
used !

méng?, To dream ; a dream.
hsi**, Radical No. 36, evemng. (See No. 14).
g g méng* Phonetic, dimness of vision. The g mu*

at the bottom of this phonetic is replaced
by # hsi', evening, as dreams belong to the
hours of sleep or the night. (W.158 F).
Dreams are frequently hazy and indefinite,
consequently this combination of elements
is not mappropnate

ts'af, Property.
pet*, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).
s’ ar, Phonetlc, talents, powers, genius. (See

No. 562) This is a happy combination
of ra,dlq:al‘a.nd phonetic as it portrays the
idea of ability in the financial line.

t'art, To covet; avaricious.
pet*, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).
4~ chin', Phonetic, now.. (See No. 18).

The emotion of greed which is excited in
the presence 4 of valuable H articles.
(W. 14, M). The phonetic in this char-
acter is the. same as in No. 18, & nien’,
and its rather unusual meaning of present,
is'the same in'both instances.
Page-208
198

m mien*, Flour. N
g,& mai*, Radical No. 199, wheat, barley. This
%‘j radical is made up of # Jas®, which origi-
nally was the character for barley, (See
No. 64), and % suf', a man who persists
in advancing in spite of trammels and
obstacles. This nmiay have been added to
indicate the gradual development of the
grain. )
fﬁ mien', Phonetic, the face. (See 486). Its use
here is as a simple phonetic.
t';, I§ mien* Phonetic, to conceal. - (See 122).

b ﬁ’ Ik shik', A form, a pattern.

=X k # Radical No. 56, a dart. This radical is not
’ looked on alike by all scholars. Some are
of opinion that it represents a nail or peg
ina wall on which articles may be hung.
Still another theory is that it is a tally for
counting or ordering ; when this tally was
placed upon an article, this article was the
pattern. Each of these explanation has
its advantages, but no one comes up to all
requirements. It seems wise to adhere to
the first explanation and regard it asa
dart, as thesemust have been very plenti-
ful, owing to the state of civilization, and
‘it is not improbable that they were used

as tallies and as pegs. (W. 71, A).

T, kung', Phonetic, work. No phonetic signifi-
cance. (See No. 89). Here the most
plausible explanation is:—a dart, used for
a peg on which is suspended a pattern of
the article ordered.
Page-209
&77
% BB

578

579 g, rréﬂ

580

£

&

199

yang®, The sun ; open, front.
fi* Radieal No. 170, a mound. (See No. 493).
% % yang® Phonetic, glorious, open out, a flag ; the

sun above the horizon B tan! 4 wi',
rays of light. This is a suggestive
phonetic. (W.101, B).

ch’i®, To marry.
ﬁ‘, ﬁ nii®, Radical No. 38, a woman., (See No. 16).
m qq ch’ii’, Phonetic, to take. A hand X holding

an ear §., To hold by the ear, to hold
securely. A betrothal in China has been
regarded as more binding than the mar-
riage ceremony in many lands. (W.
146 F).

Jjung®, Appearance; to allow; to endure.
> mien® Radical No. 40, a roof.
% " f.ﬁ kit *?, Phonetic, a deep gorge, a valley. This

is the 150th radical. The old writing
depicts two strata or ridges of rock, one
above the other and at the bottom a
mouth, a place where water flowed. This
valley is open and one can see all within,
but in 45 jung® there is a cover over the
valley. Here the valley is said to refer to
the depths of the heart, the emotions
which are concealed from others. Thus
the idea of to contain and to allow is
given the character. (W. 18 E).

tar, A terrace; a title of respect.
% & chilt, Radical No. 133, to arrive. (See No.

337). The phonetic part of this character
is # kao' and 2 % W chik!. The former
Page-210
200

is changed both at the top and bottom,

E on the top the chih' @ i$ placed, which

. indicates the summit, and % chili* replaces
the O at the bottom. This character was
constructed before they had definitely
settled on the scheme of radicals and
phonetics, # kao' and Z W chil* both
suggest height but neither aid in pro-
nun_ciatibn.

581 2 ‘ . Bl

gt % A to®, A'cluster, a head, pendent things.

o ) H’\ mu*, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 36).

7‘7,‘ /g shu® Phonetic, a wing, which on account of

its being short, vibrates rapidly while in
flight. (W. 22. A). This is without
phonetic significance but it suggests the
movement and- appearance of pendent
flowers inthe wind. The modern writing
is identical with 73 nas®.

. iE ch'?, A wife.

: # nii®, Radical No. 38, a woman. (See No.16).
The phonetic part of this character is not
used alone # and it is not given a pro-
nunciation. Itisa hand holdinga duster.
It isnot an old character. The hand that
manages the household affairsis the wife.
The present form is a contraction of an
older writing.

 

kot 5 shan', A fan; the leaf of a door.
hut, Radical No. 63; a door, a window.  (See
) « .No. 480})." .
3 m yii*, Phonetic, wings,  plumes. It isa repre-
sentation of a pair of wings or two wing
Page-211
201

quills. (W. 62. E), In appearance itis
suggestive, but" without phonetic signifi-
cance. A fan or the leaf of a door re-
sembles a ‘wing in that its attachment is
at one extremity or side and has a vibrat-
ing movement.

584
ﬁ ch’uang', A window.
'/‘( hsiieh*, Radical No. 116, a cave. (SeeNo. 97).
m @ cl’uang' Phonetic, a window. Thereare-two
m forms of the ancient writing, one seems to
be partly covered by a curtain or shutter
and the other has lattice work within.
The make up of this character indicates
that it dates back to the time when caves
and dugouts were in general use.

585
= tz'u’, Compassionate.

iy Bsir', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No.
18).

K, §§ tzii' Phonetic, the fine velvety appearance of
luxuriant vegetation. All this disappears
if covered by dust or if there is a shortage
of rain. With the addition of heart the
above beautiful qualities are transferred

' to the disposition. Compassion is that
. quality of heatrt which is admired by all,
but is easily lost owing to the cares and

worries of life.

586 R
%1 ts'ung’, Wisdom, quick of apprehension, clever.
: ﬁ er®, Radical No. 128, the ear. (See No. 71).
'Q 3 ts’ung’, Phonetic, the feelings stirred. When
” e is fearful of being apprehended he is
constantly looking out of the window 4 to
Page-212
see if the officers are coming. (W. 40, D),
With the addition of the radical ¥ er?, the
idea is to listen with the same vigilance
that a criminal uses in trying to elude
arrest. The combination is fortunate but
difficult of application at all times.

 

BALLER LESSON XXL

WE, ﬁ,é hsiang', Incense, fragrance. Radical No.

=

186. There are two seal writings of
this radical. The oldest is explained as
representing the sweet odor of millet when
undergoing. fermentation. The other re-
presents millet held in the mouth because
the flavor is agreeable.

lien®, To pity.
L hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).

# &

Phonetic, an ignis fatuus. This phonetic
has been unfortunately changed so that
the original idea is not portrayed by the
present writing. It should be #. The
light is supposed to be seen on old battle-
fields and is the result of the mingling of
the blood of men and horses. The lightis
indicated by % A yen?, one fire above
another. The battle is indicated by %
ch’uar’, to contend, as two persons are at
variance. With the addition of i heart,
the character represents the emotion of
pity that one would experience on seeing
an ignis fatuus if he believed it was caus-
ed as above stated. (W. 126 D).
Page-213
203
589 E . -chit?, Wide, spirits.
v.R shu#*, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
E.@ yu* Phaneti.c: a Ja.r for holding liquors. The
old writing is not a bad picture of these
jars. When ¥ water is added to the
phonetic the character is used for all
spirituous beverages. (W. 41 G).

. im hi?, A lake.

¥,7K shu?, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
m bu® Phonetic, dewlap. This phonetic is made
up of old & ki, and B jou', meat. The
dewlap is made up of a fold in the skin
and is tough, hence the idea of old or
tough is fitting. Its use as a phonetic in
this character is rather far fetched, but
when the dew on the grass is heavy the
dewlap of the ox plows through it and is
wet like the prow of a vessel in a lake.

591
E . bsia', Blind.

B !, Radical No. 109, the eye. (See No. 102)-

% hai*, Phonetic, to injure. (See No.436). This
phonetic has no phonetic signification, but
it indicates why the eyve is blind, that is, it
had been injured.

502
% Iung?, Deaf.
H e, Radical No, 128, the car. (See No. 71).

EE ﬁé Iung®, Phonetic, the dragon. (See No. 286).
i The dragon is supposed to be deaf and
with the addition of the radical we have

a dragon’s ear, or a deaf ear.

598 T
% t'eng?, Pain, to pain, to ache.
Page-214
204

;“‘gr ni* Radical No. 104, disease. This isri.g the
ancient writing the representation of a
bed with a horizontal line at the top to
indicaté the posture of a person when ill.
The dot on the top of this line has been
arbitrarily added by the scribes.

@r,% tung?, Phonetic, winter. (See No.170). This
is a suggestive and very appfopriaté
phonetic as the pain which is experienced
from cold is very intense and there are few
persons who have not  experienced it.
Pain being a pathological manifestation
the above radical is also a happy se-
lection.

594
m ch’iieh’, Lame.

J= n, Radical No. 104, disease. (See No. 593).
chia', Phonetic, scabs and ulcers. This phonetic
is not found in most modern dictionaries.
The idea of a swelling is set forth by an
addition i chia' of flesh W jou'. Most

lame joints are swollen and enlarged.

595 .
% t'u®, The leg, the thigh.

) % Jjou', Radical No. 130, the flesh. (See No.133).
;g t'ui', Phonetic, to retreat, to decline. The
’ idea of to retreat seems to be derived from
the apparent movement of the sun, £ each
morning it slowly R ascends until midday
and then slowly recedes. - This is not like
Wieger’s - description (W. 31.”C). The
162 radical added to the phonetic is a re-
dundancy as it contributes nothing. The
limbs in walking go through the same
" movement, each. one is one half of the

8

‘
Page-215
59 E

597 %

598 ¢
4

205

time advancing and.one half the time ap-
parently, receding.

shang’, To reward, to grant; a reward.
R pet*, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).
i shang* Phonetic, a house. (Archaic meaning).

t2'i,

(See No, 52). Houses, which includes real
estate, and money H pei* are here used to
represent all that is of value or what
would be appreciated as a reward.

To bestow, to confer on an inferior, to
give.

R pei*, Radical No. 154, precious. . (See No. 38).

% 3 #*, Phonetic, to exchange, It is supposed to

represent the house lizard, a creature
which is agile and moves with great
rapidity. Some think that the idea of
“to change” is dependent on the crea-
ture’s changing its colour to that of the
object on which it rests. The lizards in
North China have this power to a certain
extent, but it is not noticed when the
animal is in the house. With the addition
of the radical we have the idea of giving,
that is exchanging articles of value. If
the giving is always on one side it sooner
or later ceases. (W. 101 C).

tsai', Calamity, divine judgment.

j( m huo®, Radical No. 86, fire. A representation

of a flame in the old writing.

{«, }”, R( ch’uan', Phonetic, streams. It represents a

stream which is formed by the union of

other streams { !} chuan® is a small
Page-216
stream; { Q| kuai* is a stream which is
formed by the union with another stream.
The overflow of rivers is one of the great
calamities of China. .
Fires are not very common-in North China
but at times they canse great loss of pro-
perty; and {§ floods and X fire make up
the character which stands for divine
judgment ; as these are regarded as cala-
mities sent from Heaven.

599
w hsien?, Leisure, idle.
F'j mén’, Radical, No. 169, a door. (See No. 5).
H yiieh*, Phonetic, the moon. (See No. 43).
The moonlight coming in through the
cracks of the door and doing nothing is
taken as a symbol of idleness or leisure.

600 =
ﬁ K o', A lesson, a task.

% yen®, Radical No. 149, a word. (See No, 10).

% % kud?®, Phot}eﬁc, fruit. (See No. 411). To so

/ use ones opportunities that the instruction
& yer? received may bring forth results,
kuo®.
601
ﬁ ching', To plough, to till.

H % Ief Radical No. 127, a plough. The old writ-
ing resembles a harrow more nearly than
it does a plough. Tt probably was a tree
with branches so cut as to scratch fur-
roughs in the earth. (W.120'E).

ching®, Phonetic, a well. A very necessary
part of a farmer’s equipment if North
China where irrigation is required for
many kinds of agriculture. Breaking the
Page-217
207

ground and watering is the symbol for
cultivating or tilling the soil.

o2 W han®, "To call, to halloo.
3 Kou, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
hsier® Phonetic, to wound by biting, all. (Ar-
chaic). (See No. 305). With the addition
of another mouth the meaning is changed
from biting to calling.

N I% ch'd’, To remove, to do away with, to sub-
tract to discount.
E- B fii* Radical No. 170, a mound. (See No. 493).
%,ﬁ vii* Phonetic, I, me. (See No. 40). With the
addition of the radical which means lofty
the meaning of the character can be re-
membered by the following —If one extols
or eleévates himself he is sute to be dis-
counted.

604E

 

=iy

chung’, Seed ; a class or kind.
ﬂ.( ho*, Radical No. 115, grain, grain on the stalk.
(See No. 556).
T chung’, Phonetic, heavy. (See No. 22). The
heavy end of the stalk & ho® is where the
grain i is found.

905
m; chuang', Serious; a farm.

) ts'ao® Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22)..

}H: chuang', Phonetic, strong. (See No. 355).
With the addition of the grass radical the
character is used for afarm or serious.
The latter meaning is difficult of explana-
tion; but the first might be explained as
Page-218
208

the strong 4, luxuriant vegetation, +-
ts'ao®, of a well ordered farm.

608 ﬁ chiat, Growing grain. ‘ S
3‘; ho?, Radical No. 115, grain, growing grain,
(See No. 556).
R chia', Phonetic, a family. (See No, 221).
‘With the addition of the radical it implies,
crops for the family or household.

 

b il‘, z{ sheng', A measure equivalent to one tenth ofa’
3} # tou’ a peck, to promote. The old
writing of this character is similar to the
writing of the character for peck save that
it has an oblique line across the handle.
This line » 7/ p'ieh, is supposed to indi-
cate that one tenth part of the tou® has
been taken out. (W. 98 B). v

+ shil?, Radical No. 24, ten. This by some is
regarded as a contraction of two con-
tracted fives ¥.

% tou’, Phonetic, a peck. This has no phonetic
significance, it only aids in explaining the
meaning of the character in the old writ-
ing. Why shéng' has the meaning of to
promote is not easy to understand, unless
this measure, being the smallest in com-
mon use, any change is necessarily an’
increase or promotion. (W. 98 B).

608 hy
ﬁ I, A plough, to plough.
‘F ni’, Radical No. 93, an ox. (See No. 50).
F I, Phonetic, to cut grain, (archaic) ; profit.
Standing grain and sickle was adopted as
the symbol for, to reap. The addition of
Page-219
209

: * ox forms the character for plough as that

animal was used for pulling the plough,

ey the use of which was a nccessary step
before reaping. (W. 52 F).

 

BALLER LESSON XXIL,

6
¥ ﬁ sheng?, Remainder.

ﬁ pei, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).
}R, éﬁ cheng* Phonetic, to curve with fire the planks
for a boat A. In this process the plank
was partially destroyed by the fire before
it could be bent into the desired shape, but
that part of the plank which remained
was now adapted to the requirements.
By adding the radical E, precious, the
idea is set forth that remnants § are of
value. The J} chou' boat has been con-

tracted to A in the modern writing.

610 3
) % sheng®, To conquer, to excel.
It*, Radical No. 19, strength. (See No. 212).

}5’6 cheng* Phonetic, to curve with fire the planks
for a boat. (See No. 609). In the pro-
cess of bending the planks the strength
of the fire plus the strength J7 of the work-
men’s hands i overcomes the resistance
of the plank, thus with the addition
of the radical for strength, the character,
to conquer is formed. (W. 47 J).

1 .
L ﬂ K'é'. A class, a series. .

ho?, Radical No. 115, grain, standing grain.
(See No. 556).
3", % tou®, Phonetic, a peck measure. (See No. 117).
Page-220
210

It is without phonetic value, but suggests
the idea of the coiner of the character. In
measuring 3} tow® grain 5 ho® each kind
was stored in separate bins, and thus the
idea of class is set forth.

o5 ﬁ !'FE fei!, To fly. Radical No.183. This radical is
the representation of a crane in flight ; the
neck is folded on itself and the long bill
rests on this fold. The pinions are seen
on either side. The body and tail are re-
presented by the straight line in the
center. (W.11 A).

613 xa . 5 .
ﬁ’ ﬁ chiao', To commit to, to hand to, friendship,
intercourse. (W. 61 D).

. ¥ou’ Radical No. 8, ahove. Kanghsi says that
the meaning of this radical is lost. The
meaning ‘“‘above” has been given it be-
cause it is always used at the top ofa
character. The original or old writing
did not have this radical ; in the modern
writing it is arbitrarily introduced.

4 fu*, Phonetic, father. This phonetic is also a
modern innovation, having no connection
with the original writing, which repre-
sented a man sitting with crossed legs,
thus each limb is occupyinz the place of
‘its fellow. From this the idea of “to
commit to or to hand over is obtained.

614
Z, &2 L_'L' chih! He, she, it ; sign of the possessive.
7 p'ieh! radical No. 4, a stroke tn the left. (See

No. 176). This radical having been ar-
bitrarily given it destroys the original
Page-221
615 %

616%

211

idea of the symbol; which was a small
plant ¥ issuing from the ground —. The
need of a character for the above process
not being great, and owing to its being
easy to write, it was adopted to represent
the meaning given above.

chieh®, To make a contract; to produce, as

fruit ; a knot.

% ssul, mit, Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).
‘-g, § chi®, Phonetic, fortunate, lucky. This phonetic

is made up of & shih', which often is used
for 4 shih® in the archaic writing, and 0
k¥ ou® the mouth. To announce a fortu-
nate affair or condition. It seems reason-
able to believe that this phonetic has been
abbreviated from i chieh?, to be level head-
ed. i chieh® is another writing of knot.
The abbreviated phonetic has as happy a
meaning as the older form but does not
aid in determining the pronunciation:—
When a thing is fortunate make it secure.
The addition .ot the radical % often im-
plies tying or making secure. (W. 24 C).

huo®, Numerous, a company, an associate.
4 hsi* Radical No. 36, evening. (See No. 14).

The radical should be doubled % to' many,
as its use here has no reference to the
evening or new moon but to many or
much. (See No. 184).

% kuo®, Phonetic, fruit. (See No. 411). When

% to' is combined with this phonetic the
jdea of much or many is brought out; as
numerous as the fruit on the tree.
Page-222
212

chi*, A plan, a device, all told, to reckon.

617 g_I. _
B & yen®; Radical No, 149, a word. (See No. 10).
+ shik?, Phonetic, ten. The oldest form of ten

618 §

seems to be a contraction of two con-
tracted forms of five ¥ ; this was after-
wards contracted to 4 and as this was
difficult to make it was finally written in
the shape of a cross. This is an old char-
acter and the phonetic only explains an
idea without aiding in pronunciation. If
a person can count  yen® up to ten 4
they are able to reckon, to plan.

ch’ang?, To taste, to experience.

[1 Kod’, Radical No. 30, the mouth. (See No.

17). This selection of the radical is un-
fortunate as it is taken from the phonetic.

ﬁ',j shang*, Phonetic, a house. (See No. 52).

619
o ¥.3

This should complete the character,
but in the present instance the important
or distinctive part is not yet touched,
&, & chil’, something pleasant to the
taste, that which is pleasant to hear, as
the edict of the Emperor. The & pf,
may be regarded as a spoon and the
lower part in the old writing is 4 kar',
something agrecable to the taste held
in the montl, hence to taste. It is
fortunate that few characters in their
transition from the old, to the new writ-
ing, have undergone such destructive al-
feraﬁorts. (W. 26 K). ’

chien®, To select, to pick up.
shoi', Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
Page-223
620 Ek

%R

621 %

 

pat*, To ruin.
p'u Radical No. 66, to tap, to rap. (See No.

23

*' m chien®, Phonetic, to select, to choose. This

phonetic is made up of 3, ¥ shu*, a bundle
tied to or hung on a tree ; to this is added
A pa', eight, written, one stroke on either
side of the bundle, to indicate that it is
opened or divided. (See No. 569). (W. 75
A). With the additien of the tadical for
hand the act of selecting is more emphatic-
ally brought out.

17).

pet*, Phonetic, precious. (See No. 38). The

object of this combination is evident ,viz.,
the result of hammeting sea-shells is their
destruction.

chiang?, To descend.
hsiang®, To submit, to surrender.
B {u, Radical No. 170, a mound. (See No. 493).
é =¥‘ cluang‘, Phionetic, to subject. (W. 31 F).

This is the 84th, radical X chik!, a man
overtaking another, written in two ways,
above it is upright, the usual writing, and
below it is inverted. The idea of the
combination is, a suppliant overtakes a
man and prostrates himself in token of
subjection. The meaning ot to descend is
set forth in prostration or inversion of the
suppliant. The meaning of to submit is
the above idea cdrried a little farther,

‘prostration - implies submission or sur—

render. . Wieger puts this character under
‘the -35th, radical. . The radical R fu*
Page-224
214

added to this phonetic simply complicates
the writing and as to etymology, it is a
redundancy. .

632
ﬁ sutt, Vulgar, common.
/f . A jer?, Radical No. 9,a man.
A

) ket

Phonetic, a valley, a ravine. This is

composed of two /A pa' characters super-
imposed one above the other which indi-
cates a gorge of great depth, below is OO
Kou which stands for a water-course.
(W. 18 E). The addition of the radical
implies that the man is a rustic from the
ravines or mountains, uncouth.

623
m yu?, Like ; undecided ; $till.
z j‘( ﬁ: ch'ijan’® Radical No. 94, a dog. (See No. 424.)

In modern writing, when used at the left:
of a phonetic, the present form is used in
order to occupy less space.

E ﬁ chin' Phonetic, liquor.. A liquor after fermen-

tation is completed and the dregs have
settled, divided /A pa'. If the Chinese,
colorless liquor were placed before a
thirsty dog X the resemblance to water
is striking, but the odor would cause him
to hesitate & about drinking. (W. 41 G).

624 .
fﬁ t'o', To support with the hand; to com-

mission.

%3 shoif, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

3
T4

Phonetic, a plant just appearing above
the ground bearing the cotyledons. The
stalk seems often too delicate to support
these first leaves and on this account they
Page-225
GM%E

626

215

attract attention ; thus the idea of to sup-
port is set forth by this phonetic. When
the radical for hand is added the meaning
of to support is changed from the plant to
the hand. (W. 33 B).

chii®, A rule, a pattern, a custom. (W. 82 D).
% shik®, Radical No. 111, a dart, an arrow. (See

No. 100).

B chii* Phonetic, a square. This is an instrament

larger than the T kung', the ordinary
square. The square was the guide when
building or laying out a plot of ground.
When 4 shib® is added it indicates, ap-
pointed, determined, irrevocable. This
meaning is derived from archery ; after the
arrow is shot one knows the skill of the
archer, as its position on the target
cannot be changed. Thus this combina-
tion is used for established custom.

12°, The hair of the human head.
E2 &% piac' Radical No. 190, hair, shaggy hair or

locks. In the old writing it is the same
as £ ch’ang®, long, save three strokes =
are added on the right, these represent the
long locks. (Cf. No. 131.)

i ?&: pa® Phonetic, a dog led by a leash, by a strap

behind the shoulders and in front of one
fore leg. During the Manchu rule, prison-
ers were led by their cues. This practise
may have been handed down from the
dim past as the Chinese have long worn
long hair, dressed in different styles as the
dynasty determined. The long braided
Page-226
216

hair looks like a leash and thus the
phonetic was adopted. (W. 134 A).

627 2 . . .
’é ch'iao®, A sparrow or small bird.
) 4 chui' Radical No. 172,.a short-tailed bird.
(See No. 21).

M, }“ hsiao®, Phonetic, small. It is made up of A
pa eight, to divide. The idéa of to divide
is given to this numeral because in the
seal writing the two' parts are identical
and they do not touch, thus they suggest
division. Between these two parts there
is a vertical line. This is an object which
is to be divided and as that will make it
smaller, this combination is used for small.
Add to this the radical for short tailed
bird and the sparrow family has an ap-
propriate appellation. (W. 18 N).

&R
s niao®, A bird. Radical No. 196. A pictorial
representation of a long tailed bird.

 

BALLER, LESSON XXIII

b ﬁi Li?, To flow, to drift.
/ 7]( shuf®, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).

/Q t'u* Phonetic, a fetus in ‘the easiest position
i for delivery, viz.,, a head presentation.
This is similar to:% t'u? the delivery of a
i child, save the present phonetic depicts a
ol L el child with long flowing hair. With the
i addition of the above radical the character
is used. for, the:current or the flow ofa

.river, (W. 94 F).
Page-227
630,'§

631

632 ﬁ

{ 217

kuan', Accustomed to, practised in.

Ly hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No.
- 18 ‘ v
E, & kuan', Phonetic, long strings # huan* of cow-
ries, H pef*, to pierce, to tie, to string. The
sea-shells were kept on'a string and ouly
opened when it was necessary to do so to
make change. Thus with the addition of
heart a character is formed which means,
usage, custom or experience. It having
become as familiar or common to one as
the condition of being strung was to the

cowries. (W.153 A).

tiao*, To fall down, to lose.

¥ . shous, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53)..
$ * cho' Phonetic, high, elevated. (See No. 56).
. It represents a kind of mast with a
hopper shaped box half way from the

ground to the top. Many characters with

this phonetic have an ending like the

character under consideration, and it is

probable that,the phonetic has been ab-

breviated from one of these. The addi-

tion of the radical F shou’ signifies, to

fall: In climbing such a mast gi if ones

hold  is not good a fall $ is inevitable.

10% A gong.
% chin', Radical No, 167, gold or metal. - (See
. No.18)..
ﬁ’ fgl 4o%, Phonetic, a net, a sieve. A net m wang’
made of silk & mi, ssu' for catching birds
4 chu’. These. nets, in:shape, resemble
- a gong and when the radical which is
Page-228
218

633 m

634%

" i A

used for all kinds of metal is added the
character for gong is formed. (W. 39 D).

p’o*, Broken, to break.
A shif?, Radical No. 112, astone. (See No. 42).
& p'f’, Phonetic, the skin. (See No. 224). The

present form of # p'o* is quite different
from the old writing and this accounts for
the variance of the phonetic. (For old
form see K’ang Hsi). Although the com~
bination of this character has been arbi-
trarily changed its present form is not
inappropriate :—if one comes in contact
with a rock or stone, the skin is apt to
be broken.

kuer*, To kneel, to bow down to.
J& tsu?, Radical No. 157, the foot. (See No.484).
TE‘— wer?, Phonetic, peril, hazard. Thisis made up

from 7 wei’, a man standing on arock in
order to get a better view. When g, &
chiel® is added, (See No. 42), it meanshe
restrains his movements owing to the
height of his position and danger of fall-
ing. With the above radical the emotions
of one on a rock with a precarious footing
is given to the suppliant, he regards him-
self with apprehension. (W. 59 H).

Radical No. 126; and, yet, still, but.
The archaic meaning is the beard. The
horizontal stroke is the mouth. (W.
164 A).

The use of this radical as above set forth
is said to have originated from the fact
Page-229
A

 

219

that the beard is suspended from the chin
and the above connectives act as appen-
dages for connecting together the various
parts of the sentence. ¢

yian®, A garden, an orchard.

[] wes, Radical No. 31, an inclosure.
= ﬁ yiian® Phonetic, trailing robes. This is a

637 K
=

T

combination of % i, clothing and
$ chuan', to attach, to drag, (See No.
385) at the end of a trace. This is
contracted to ™, which is placed at the
top of the character, and [ which is
placed between the upper and lower

‘parts of % 1, making 3 and with

the additional top #¥ yian’. With the
radical which often means a fence, placed
around the phonetic we have the charac-
ter for garden. A garden with its tall
stalks and long vines gives one the im~’
pression that the inclosed plot of earth
has donned its long garments,.

ta®, to reply, to respond to.
chu?, Radical No. 118, bamboo. (See No. 7).

'% ho?, Phonetic, union, agreement, harmony.

638
i +F

(See No. 103). The joints of 4F chu?,
bamboo, harmonize & ho?, or answer to
each other, in their positions on the
stalk, as to size and shape. From this the
idea of to answer or respond to is ob-
tained.

sa!, To scatter, to sow, to let loose.
shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53)
Page-230
220

ﬁ.gﬁ san* Phonetic, to pound ¥% p’u' meat g until
the fibres separate, like shredded hemp, i

pai'. (See No. 24). When the hand is

* added to this phonetic the idea of, to

scatter or disperse is conveyed. The

modern writing is quite arbitrary and it

is only by consultinig the seal character

. that the etymology can bé traced.

 

huang’, To talk wildly, to lie, lies.

ven?, Radical No. 149, word. (See No. 10).

huang®, Phonetic, wild overgrowth. This is
derived from ¥ wang® (See No. 123) an
entering. in of -the rivers, R chuan', an
overflow. ‘When 4 ts’ao’ is added it
indicates an overgrowth of weeds or
worthless vegetation on wild lands.
When word ‘& is added it indicates wild,

’ worthless talk or lies. (W. 12 ]).

640
ﬁ wa', Military, warlike.
chik®, Radical No."77, to stop. (See No. 10).
=, K ko', Phonetic, halberd. (See No. 2). For
some unaccountable reason the’stroke
across the handle of the halberd has been
placed above the horizontal stroke on
the left. (W. 71 K).
The lancers X who stop It the hostile
incursion, thus allowing the people to
proceed with their peaceful occupation.

641 .
J 1%, To shave.
,J] tao', Radical No. 18, a knife. (See No. 37).
% ti*, Phonetic, a thread wound on a spocl. . (See
R No. 86)... The hair grows: as.if it were
Page-231
Gﬂﬁ%

643%

644,@3

645 1&

221

“ being unwound from a hidden spindle and

the idea of to shave was set forth by
placing a razor J] tao' by the side of this
phonetic. .

B ch’'ing', Clear, pure, correct, as an account.
‘/,7]( shui®, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
-ﬁ-ﬁ- ch'ing', Phonetic, light green, the color of

sprouting vegetation. (See No. 63). As
the tips of recent sprouts are translucent,
they are regarded as being pure and with
the addition of water, which is trans-
parent, the character for clear is obtained.

Jan?®, Blue, indigo.
H I £920%, Radical No. 140, grass.  (See No. 22).
% chien', Phonetic, to watch. (See No. 294).

This is a simple phonetic and consequently
¥ has no logical explanation.

hsing?, Nature, disposition, a quality.
. . .
i Bsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (Sce No.18).
Mz Y sheng’, Phonetic; to grow, bear, produce.

Radical 100. A plant that grows more
and more. A whorl was added to ¥ =
showing increasing growth (W. 79, B, F).
When +t hsin', heart, is gdded the
character is used for the natural in-
clinations or desires of the heart.

chia', Tools, furniture.
4 .\ jen*, Radical No. 9, a man.
i chia', Phonetic, a family. (See No. 221). This

#§ is an unauthorized character and is not
found in the old dictionaries. The only
. explanation is :—what a man 4 jér®, sup-
Page-232
222

ports his family % chia' with; tools and
furniture are necessary in the home.

646
4’( huo®, Tools, furniture.

p jén’, Radical No. 9, a man.
KW huo®, Phonetic, fire. A pictorial representation
) of a flame of fire. This, {4 like No. 645, is
an unauthorized character. Itissupposed
to have originated from the expression
+AB—X ten men make one mess or fire.
The mess includes the utensils for cooking.

- *ﬁ fif!, A square cloth for tying up bundles.
% #% i, Radical No. 145, clothes. (See No. 51).

ﬁ!\n £i?, Phonetic, to hide, to stoop. Thisis com~
. posed of man A and dog, R. It was first
used as the character for, to ambush, a
man 4 assuming the posture of the dog
& in order not to be seen. With the
addition of # 7, cloth, it becomes a sug-
gestive phonetic, because it surrounds the

articles inclosed,—hides them.

BALLER, LESSON XXIV.
648

chin', All, entirely, exhaust.

]m,m min®, Radical No. 108, a dish. This is a
pictorial representation of a dish witha
pedestal such as the Chinese often use at
feasts.

i,% chin® Phonetic, ashes which remain after the
fire. This phonetic, in modern writing,
has one less horizontal stroke than in the
ancient writing. 1t is difficult to account
for the use of $ chin' as a phonetic in
Page-233
%

Gﬁoms

651@

=

228

this character. #& Kuei Shih Shuo Wen
has the most plausible explanation:—he
says that ¥ is a contraction of #¥ hsin'
fuel, and X hud®, fire. Thus when the firc
has consumed the fuel, its force is expend-
ed ; nothing remains save the ashes. The
radical [l min® indicates the stove. It
might have been a brazier for holding
coals for warming the hands of scribes #.

k0% To thirst, thirsty.

7, 7]( shui®, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).

B3’

0* Phonetic, to ask. (See No. 271). With

the addition of the radical the idea is:
To ask % for water 7K because one is
thirsty #.

hsiek?, Vicious, depraved, heterodox.

B.& i Radical No. 163, a city. (See No. 11).

1.

5 ya’, Phonetic, tooth. (See No. 97). This is

a contraction of the original phonetic 2
hsien®, a garment like a buskin which
wraps around the legs, awry. The con-
traction has deprived the character of a
proper phonetic. The radical added to
this was the name of an ancient city in
Eastern Shantung. The city may have
had a bad reputation. Owing to the
original meaning of the phonetic being,
awry, 2 this character has been used for
depraved or hetrodox.

ting?, To stop, to delay ; suitable.
Jjér?, Radical No. 9, a man. (See No. 5).
.7 ting’, Phonetic, a pavilion, terrace. This is
Page-234
652

A

653 E

R
P,

AT

mﬁm

formed of # kao!, high, and T ting', a

"'person. "In the combination, the lower O,

of the kao' is deleted. With the addition

- of the radical A the idea is:—When a 4

man comes to-a pavilion # while on a
journey, he will stop, ## to rest.

chien, The shoulder.
jou', Radical No. 130 ; meat. (See No. 133).
" hu*, Phonetic, a door. (See No. 5). A glance

at the development of ‘this character will
reveal why | hu', a door has been added ;
it has gradually been substitiited for a
curved line which represented the arm.
Because this line was only used for this
one character, its form was not easy to
remember ; first P shih', a person in the
sittinig or reclining posture, was substitut-
ed, and afterwards it was changed to B
hu*. This shows that early in the de-
velopment of the written language, un-
usual symbols were gradually replaced by
those in common use and this too at the
expense, in many instances, of logica]
etymology. The facility of remembering
oft recurring elements brought about these
changes. The H represents the mmuscles
about the shoulder joint. In No. 361,
hutis referred to as ““a farmer”; in farm-
ing the shoulder of man and beast must
be strong, the former for carrying burdens
and the latter for pulling the plow. This

'may aid in remembering the combination.

yuan*, To be willing, to be desirous of, a vow.
Page-235
654 ;i%

225

: E ¥éh', Radical No. 181, a leaf of a book, the

archaic meaning is, the head. (Se: No.
105).

,JM yiian®, Phonetic, a spring. It is represented

as gushing out from a hillside [~ Aan', or
a projecting cliff. The little dotat the top
of M ck’iian?, and the short horizontal line
are the springs and the other lines are the
rills which are fed by them, (See W. 125
F). | yéh' is here used to represent the
brain or the soul ; that which issues from
the soul are desires and aspirations.

chiang"*, To take, to hold.
Tj‘ a ts’un’, Radical No. 41, an inch ; archaic mean-

ing, a hamq.

Hﬂ H% H% chiang*, Phonetic, three archaic forms of the

655 ﬁ

#
tar,

character under consideration show its
development. The first one is a meat-
block and meat. The second is the same
plus salt and the last is the first plus the
pickle or brine @ for preserving the meat.
The modern character is the first of this
series plus ~f ts’un’, the hand which takes
the meat and places it npon the meat-
block. (W. 127, B).

To treat, to wait for.

,f ch'ik*, Radical No. 60, a step. (See No. 78).

% sac ssit’,

Phonetic, a court, a place where the law
st rule is constantly W (continually as
the growth of a plant), applied. (See No.
125). This phonetic has no phonetic
value, but it sets forth the way one should
Page-236
226

0 1

treat others, viz; ‘constantly'according to
propriety. The radical is not particularly
appropriate, but it serves to distinguish
the character from others which have the
same phonetic. Characters which have
this radical generally indicate action.

hsing?, To punish, punishment.

|J )] 7) tao', Radical No. 18, a knife. A pictorial re-

657 %

; preséntation of the instrument.

ﬂ‘}f ch'ien' Phonetic, balanced scale pans. The

seal writing represents the two objects
"as being even. This was not the original
phonetic, # ching’, a well is the archaic
writing and this accounts for the pro-
nunciatign. The well, was in the centre
of a plot of ground divided into nine
squares and farmed by eight families, the
central square was farmed for the state
by the joint labor of the eight families.
The well being in the centre, was where
all public functions were attended to. The
knife indicates that punishment, generally
decapitation, was inflicted.

1a*, To fine, to punish, punishment.
g WJ wang?, Radical No. 122, a net. (See No. 38).

There was a mistake made in putting this
character under W} wang®, as it destroys
the phonetic which was & I, to blame or
accuse one 5 with a fault and thus,
entangle W wang®, them. To this is
added the knife which is an instrument of

torture.
Page-237
658 5‘&

659:%

T2

227

. mi*, To deceive, to delude, to lead or go astray.
3— cho' Radical No. 162, stopping and starting.

(See No. 10).

* mi®, Phonetic, rice. (See No. 47). Thereis a

hu

still older writing than that referred to in
No. 47. This depicts nine grains of rice
< without any lines dividing them; as
they are identical in appearance it would
be impossible to keep track of any one
grain if their position were disturbed. It
may be that this was the reason why

rice was adopted as the phonetic of this
character.

0%, To doubt, to mislead.

i hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No.18).

g‘cbu

o, Phonetic, an appanage, or feudal holding
(archaic meaning). (See No. 70). As
these appanages had no boundary there
must have been continual strife between
barons of contiguous regions, as one could
never be sure on whose territory he was
when nearing the imaginary boundaries.
Add heart to this phonetic and we have a
good symbol for “ to doubt.”

wang®, The full moon ; to expect, to hope, to

i

look toward.
ek, Radical No. 74, the moon. (See No.
43)

g% wang' Phonetic, (abbreviated), a solemn im-

perial audience. The explanation of this
phonetic is that the minister € ch'er?,
when in the presence 2 of the sovereign,
received light from him as the moon ®
Page-238
228

receives light from the sun. The B ch'en?
is deleted and tS wang?® destroyed or
ruined, is substituted. This is a very ald
character and the absence of the radical
does not leave a definite phonetic; this
is because the character was in use befare
the principle of radical and phonetic was
adopted. (W. 81 G).

661
%, % chi?, Anxious, hurried, urgent.
i hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (Sce No.18).

& E ch?, Phonetic, to catch up with. (See No.
. 324).

This phonetic indicates a person running
after another and laying hold of him; a
situation requiring haste; and with the
addition of the radical for hedrt we have
the feelings of the pursuer set forth, he is
fearful lest he will not be able to overtake
his man.

o 57( hsiel', To rest, to stop.

k ch'ien*, Radical No. 76, to owe, to lack;
archaic meaning, to exhale, to breathe.
(See No. 273).

J ho? Phonetic, why ? (See No. 271). There is
an old reading of this character % as
“ho*” but that is now obsolete. The
etymology is:— why not stop for a
breathing spell ?

H zan', Radical No. 99, sweet. (See No. 23).

663
ﬁ“ tier’, Sweet, pleasant.
v 35 shé, Phonetic, the tonguc. (See No. 73),
Page-239
"R

=

229

This phonetic has no phonetic significance.
The old writing of this character was
#%. The present writing conveys the idea
of sweet owing to the adoption of the
above radical, viz., that which is sweet #~
to the tongue, &.

suan', Sour, acid, grieved.

P8 vu®, Radical No. 164, wine. (See No. 589).
2' g tsun', Phonetic, to walk slowly. Thisis com-

posed of M1 & 7, the exhalation of the
breath and JuR jén’, man=f & yur’, to
consent; and X R sui', to walk slowly.
It is probable that the acid was obtained
by a process of fermentation and as this
is a slow, steadily advancing condition,
the present phonetic is appropriate.

mo?®, To smear, to rub over, to wipe.

ij’ ,%3 shor®, Radical No. 6%, the hand. (See No.

53).

*, i-ﬁ mo*, Phonetic, the tips of the branches of a

tree. The horizontal line indicates the
part of the tree referred to just as in
the character A pén’, root; the lower
horizontal line does the same. With the
addition of hand, which generally indicates
motion, the character for rubbing #k is
formed.

ch'iang’, To take openly by force, to snatch or

grab.

show?, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
ts’ang’, Phonetic, a granary. This is a con-

traction of & shil?, food. (See No. 75).
Page-240
230

667 %

668%

The lower part is deleted to make room
for O wef, the store-room for grain. The
granary was the most important asset
which the farmer possessed, it was his
money, it was his very life, therefore he
used all diligence in guarding it. When
the radical for hand is added it implies the
hand of a forager or robber removing the
grain by force. )

ch'el', To receive, to meet, to accept.
¥ $ shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
%ﬁ ch'iel’, Phonetic, the daughter of a culprit.

(Archaic). The modern meaning of this
phonetic is, a concubine. This is compos- .
ed of F kan', fault, crime, against a
superior .k = shang’, and % f nif® a girl
or daughter. Children of offenders were
appropriated by officials. With the addi-
tion of hand this was first used for the
taking of a concubine from among the
daughters of the vanquished but it now
has no restrictions and simply means, to
take, or receive.

lien®, A screen.
¢ chu, Radical No. 118, bamboo.  (See No. 7).
%,fg lier’, Phonetic, the roof and wall ot a house,

frugal. (W.121K). From [ yér, a
roof or shelter, and % § chient!, stalks of
grain held together by a hand, corn stalks
bound together to form a wall. When the
radical ‘for bamboo is added to this
phonetic it indicates the screens which are
Page-241
231

made of bamboo, split into strips about
. the size of straw and woven together.

669
&, @ hu', Suddenly, all at once.
L hsin, Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).

Z" @ ‘wu , Phonetic, a flag of three pennons attached

to a staff. Used to signal a. negative

" reply. When the heart is added it indi-

cates that the action was not intentional
but~instinctive, sudden. (W. 101 A).

670 Y .
A Y ya', A slave girl.
J kou! Radical No. 6, a barb.

There is no phonetic to this character
.owing to its being an old symbol which
cannot be broken up. Some take it to be
a forked stick; others think it was an
abbreviation of k K mu!, wood. Slave
girls wear their hair in two tufts, wrap-
ped with a cord, which stand up from the
head and, with the body, resemble the
character ¥ ya', therefore a slave girl is
called Y ya' t'ou’.

671
uﬁ 1én', To mete out words, to give a command.
- K ou®, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
A fent Phonetic, to divide. (See No. 181).

As this Phonetic is frequently used with %

ke®, to give, the phonetic itself seems to

infer giving, after the division is made;

therefore I &’ ou®, the mouth, in combina-
. tlon wﬂ:h 53 fén' implies the separation of
“an order from ordinary speech and giving
) the same to the person addressed.

672 |
"ﬁ e, To give a command.
Page-242
232

B K ou®, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
ﬁ- ,ﬁ fu!, Phonetic, to' give. This represents two

men, the one on the rightis only the hand
of a man ~} giving something, (the article
is not pictured), to the man A on the left.
Wlhen O kow®, the mouth, is added it
indicates the giving of a command.

BALLER, LESSON XXV.

6735']’ ré, Eq yin', To print, to stamp, an official seal, a

674

stamp.

chiel?, Radical No. 26, a joint or seal. (See

No. 42).

IN.@~ chao®, Phonetic, the right hand. This is a

pictorial representation of the right hand,
palm down and resting on the tips of the
fingers. This is an old character and the
phonetic has no value as such; but it
indicates a hand pressing a seal. It also
may indicate the use of the imprint ot
finger-marks as a seal. The Chinese have
long used finger-prints on bank notes.
With the addition of a joint, or seal we
have the character for the latter.

hut', Ashes, dust, lime.
k U\' huo®, Radical No. 86, fire. A pictorial repre-

sentation of a flame of fire in the old
writing:

i‘,X, 3, yu', Phonetic, the right hand, (Archaic). It

has no phonetic significance. This com-
bination was first used for ashes; the
product of fire which can be handled.
Limestone. is burned and converted ‘into
Page-243
675 %'ﬁ

. h chin', Radical No. 50, a cloth, a kerchief. (See

676 ,hl:

238

lime and. this can be handled, but it is
said- to contain fire which is apparent
when brought in contact with water.

pang’, To help, a class, a guild.

No. 143).

3 $8 pang', Phonetic, a fief, a region, a country.

The # feng', is a primitive representing a
leafy bough. The B & # a city, the upper
part is the official residence and the lower
part is the seal which is kept in the official
residence. The # represents the wooded
tracts surrounding the official residence.
The oldest writing of this character was
with & po', silk, wealth. From @ pa#,
white and M} chin!, a cloth, a kerchief, or
rolls of silk which are still used as legal
tender in Mongolia. Thus the help which
the emperor recognized was the financial
aid received from his nobles.

mang?®, Hurried, in haste, busy.

1 4Ly hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart, (See No. 18).

Y

wang?®, Phonetic, to hide, lost, to die. (See

No. 123).

To lose ones senses because of pressure of
duties is the etymology. This would be
sufficient to enable one to remember the
composition of the character were it not
for & wang’, to forget, being made up of
the same radical and phonetic; in the case
of “hurried,” 1 the heart is at the side
and it may aid in recalling the position of
the radical if we recall the expression :—
Page-244
234

677 w

-

679 ﬁ

-

“ Hurried until he is beside himself.” In
case of to forget :—i& “ That has dropped
entirely out of mind.” The heart has
dropped to the bottom of the character.

chu', To aid, to help.
1./ 1% Radical No. 19, strength. (See No. 212).
HA tsu® ch'ieh’ Phonetic, a small stand used at

sacrifices (archaic) ; moreover, also.

The lower stroke is the ground, the two
parallel strokes above are rungs. In the
sacrifices for the dead the apparent idea
is to do a favor to the departed, to aid
them, but this requires utensils g tsu® and
J1 Ii* strength in order to perform the
ceremonies according to prescribed rules.

hua', A drawing, a picture.
m t'ien®, Radical No. 102, a field. A pictorial

representation of a field.

i,? yii* Phonetic, to trace lines, to draw. (See

No. 7). The radical and phonetic do not
cothpose the whole character in this in-
stance ‘as formerly the M tien® was
inclosed with a 1 wes? but this has been
reduced to one stroke and that is at the
bottom of the character. This phonetic
has no phonetic value, it indicates how
drawing is accomplished, by showing a
pericil tracing the boundaries of a field.

chien', Cheap, mean, worthless.
E pet*, Radical No. 154, precious.  (See No. 38).
% chien', Phonetic, to _destroy, narrow, small.

(See No. 18). This phonetic is generally
Page-245
8

681 ﬁa

682%

683 %

235

attached to characters which have theidea
of small or mean; in this instance the
meaning is cheap, mean, worthless. The
radical, here, with the phonetic can be
interpreted :—the value is insignificant.

so’, A lock, to lock.
4 chin', Radiial No. 167, gold, metal. (See No.
13).

#, ’ﬁ so’ Phonetic, a small /b object not larger than
a cowrie, | pei®. These small shells were
also used as money. With the addition
of the radical, metal, the combination is
used to represent a lock, a small metal ob-
ject, round like a cowrie. Itis a safe pre-
caution to keep money under lock and key.

pao®, To eat to the full, satiated.

ﬁ shil?, Radical No. 184, to eat, food. (See No.
75).

’E, pao, Phonetic, to wrap up. (See No. 327).
When one has over eaten he realizes the
aptness of this combination, the stomach
feels as if it had difficulty in surrounding
its contents. .

kung', Merit, efficacy, good results.
j] I#*, Radical No, 19, strength. (See No. 212).
I kung', Phonetic, labor. (See No. 89).
This is not a bad combination to fulfill the
idea of efficiency ; one must work and
exercise all the energy available in order
Jto be efficient.

Jao®, To toil, to suffer, weary.
7} I* Radical No. 19, strength. (See No. 212).
Page-246
236

684 ﬂ,%

% ying’, Phonetic, the light of many lamps in a

~— mi*, a house. (W. 126 F). There is
but little phonetic value in this symbol,
but there is much significance as to the
meaning of % to toil; to labor through
the night with artificial light. This
phonetic loses the & at the bottom to
give place to the radical.

A drum, to drum, to arouse; it is radical
No. 207; bulging. A drum £ chod!,
beaten by a hand holding a stick & p'u'.
The lower part of chou' is not & tou', as
one might think, it is a drum placed on a
stand. The straight line above the drum
is the skin and all above this line is sup-
posed to be ornaments. (W. 165 C).
Written 3k the radical is J¢ skin.

685@ %,@ san’, An umbrella, a parasol.

686 E

687 ”

N\ Jen’,

Radical No. 9, a man. This radical was
arbitrarily given as it has nothing to do
with the original character, which wasa
pictorial representation of an umbrella.
The archaic writing sets this forth very
satisfactorily. See Chalfant, Plate XIV.

chung?®, To swell, a swelling.
BB jou', Radical No. 130, meat. (See No. 133).
§ chung’, Phonetic, heavy. (See No. 22). This

cha

phonetic also conveys the idea of being
large and consequently is a satisfactory
combination for a swelling.

0%, To quarrel, to dispute.

O Eouf, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
Page-247
= Il

689%, ﬁ'

|

237

& shao’, Phonetic, small. (See No. 176). Small,

mean talk is a very proper definition of
to quarrel.

nao*, To make a disturbance, bustle, noise.
ﬁ,@ tou', Radical No. 191, to fight, to grapple

with an antagonist. This radical is
made up of two H f§ chi’, to lay hold of,
to seize. (W.11 H). (See No.139).

Tﬁ shin*, Phonetic, a market. (See No. 256).

The market place is where each man is
alert to his own interests and altercations
which lead to disturbances are not un-
common. This symbol has no phonetic
value but it does aid in explaining the
meaning of the combination.

#E )
HRIE tsa®, Mixed, confused.
E chui', Radical No. 172, a short-tailed bird.

(See No. 21). In giving this character a
radical the phonetic was destroyed ; & ch?*,
in the old writing is & a flock of birds on
a tree, a collection or a coming together.
% is the logical phonetic and the radical
should be % 7, clothing ; but the latter is
written in an unusnal form and con-
sequently the above radical was adopted.
A garment made of odds and ends of
cloth, thus the idea of mixed or confused
is set forth.

chiel’, Elder sister.
nii*, Radical No. 38, a woman. (See No. 16).
E B ckiek', Phonetic, a square bench. It resembles

a chair without a back. Thisis a very
Page-248
238

691 iﬂe

692 %

693 i‘ﬁ

694 ﬁ

mef’,
nit’,

jk wer*

sar’,

H pei,
g Fv’%\ saf’,

common article of furniture. Women
were regarded more or less as chattels
and the make up of this character was
not regarded as humiliating.

, A younger sister.

Radical No. 38, a woman. (See No. 16).

, Phonetic, not yet; a tree in full leaf and

branch, but probably not of large size.
(See No. 524). With the addition of the®
radical for girl or woman the character
for younger sister is formed.

To contest, to rival.

Radical No. 154, precious (See No. 38).
Phonetic, to wall in, to shut up, to cork:
An empty space ~» (), is filled with bricks,
I kuang', by the f§ hands of the work-
men (W. 47 T). When B pe*, a reward,
is added, it gives the idea of compectition
to the labor; the one who works best is
rewarded.

ch’ien’, To depute, to send.
i_ i cho* Radical No. 162, to run fast and stop, to

=

yiit,

go. (See No. 10).

Ey% ch’ien’® Phonetic, to carry earth in a R Kuf',

basket, for erecting a wall, § (W. 111 C).
This being an important undertaking, an
officer was deputed who had charge of
the construction. The sending of a per-
son to have charge is implied when the
radical 3_ cho* is added to the phonetic.

Prepared before hand, already.
Page-249
239
shih® Radical No, 152, a pig.  (See No. 221).

_}g‘ $ yii* Phonetic, to pass from one hand to an—
’ other, to hand down, to give; I, me.
(W. 95 A). The seal writing depicts one
hand giving to another. This may be
just a repetition of the act of passing
from one hand to another, as a person, at
times, will do unconsciously, when the
mind is occupied. Add the radical plus
the part which makes it an elephant %
and we have a symbol which is suggestive
of the archaic meaning, viz., excursions
- back and forth, indecision. A caged ele-
phant goes from one side of the cage to
the other for hours without stopping. He
is all ready to escape at the first oppor—
tunity.

5
B ﬁ'ﬁ pei*, Complete, to prepare.

A, /f jén?, Radical No. 9, a man.

ﬁ, m pei* Phonetic, to prepare, to make ready.
This is composed of # #j ching’, de-
ferential behaviour, (See No. 407) con-
tracted, the 1 being replaced by Al yung*.
The ching § indicates how the preparation
is to be made, viz., with decorum, and jj
indicates that what is prepared is wanted
for use. (W. 54 G). This phonetic was
originally used for the preparation of the
household necessities by the women. It
has had many different writings. The
addition of the radical is modern.

696
ﬂﬁ Kuang!, Waste, wilds, desert.
H Jit*, Radical No. 72, the sun (See No. 12).
Page-250
240

% kuang’, Phonetic, broad, enlarged, a large

hall. From J*~ yén®, a covering, a shelter;
and ¥ huang®, yellow, the hue of loess.
(See No. 207).-
A yellow or imperial house is naturally
made large, spacions. (W. 171 A). It
is evident that % huang® was originally
used as a synonym of earth or soil, and
thus J§ kuang’, a hall, resembles % t’ang’,
a hall (See No. 408), as they both are
used for holding large assemblies and both
have the earth as the floor. Kuang’® is
not now used for a hall, as t’ang® fulfills
all the requirements, and j§ kuang® is
used for broad. When the sun is added
it is the symbol for a desert or barren
waste. A hall, notwithstanding it has
the carth for a floor, is non-productive;
and B K’'uang* is a large, barren tract of
earth with the sky for a covering and the
sun the only occupant.

697 E yéh*, A waste, a desert, savage, rude, wild,,
rustic.
_% 2 Ii*, Radical No. 166, cultivated fields. (See No.
’ 82).

?, $ yii* Phonetic, To pass something from one
hand to the other, to hand over. (See
No. 694). There is a reading of ¥ which
is yi? but it is archaic. B K # 3% Tuan
Shih Shuo Wen has a good description of
this character & 5} il Z 48, 38 5 8 2 &, &
5+ 88 Z ¥7. “ Beyond the limits of the city
it is called %% chiac® ; beyond the limits of
Page-251
241

the chiao' it is called pasture, 4 mu';
beyond the pasture it is called ¥ yéh®.”
A pasture region was not maintained in
all cases outside the limits of the chiao?,
and in such cases the yeh® was immediate-
1v beyond the limits of the chiao'. The
% chiao' was where intercourse % chiao',
with the barbarians was held. They
were not allowed inside the & f* lest they
should learn of its, vulnerable points and
thus attack the stronghold. This charac-
ter was originally written # indicating
that it was covered with forests. After
the forests were cleared off the composi-
tion was changed to the present form,
which is + ¢'u® land for fields H ¢'ien’.
During the feudal times the ¥} yéh® was
given into the charge of the military to
manage, and timber, grain and straw
were demanded as taxes. There were
three grades of grain tax, one for farming
land, one for buildings and another for
living in the district in idleness. The ¥
yi* indicates that the squatters or oc-
cupants handed over to the proper au-
thorities the taxes or a rent.

- m ﬁ shih', To bestow.

jj fang’, Radical, No. 70, square (See No.
503).
This radical has been given to the char-
acter because the original classifier is not
among the modern radicals and it is now
written #* yén®, the old form is fA. Itis
Page-252
242

a banyan tree with branches hanging
down and striking root, A. As this tree
‘has many of these accessory trunks it is
here used as a symbol for many. (W. 117
B).

'&QE yéh®; Phonetic, also. (Archaic, a drinking
vessel.) This combination indicates a
pouring out # at frequent intervals # as
wine at a feast; or something freely
given, #i. (W. 107, B).

699
1@ huf, To repent, to regret.

i hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart (See No. 18).

!ﬁ‘:% mer®, Phonetic, each, every, many. (See No.
269). The combination of radical and
phonetic implies that mistakes or crimes
are committed through thoughtlessness
and when one repents it is because his
heart swarms 4§ mei’ (archaic meaning)
with the thoughts of his misconduct and
causes him regret.

700 & kai®, To change, to alter, to correct, another.
i p’u* Radical No. 66, to tap, to rap (See No.

17).

Phonetic, exhalation of brea!

tion is immediately followed

this symbol was adopted a:

for, “'to change.”

(W. 85 Band No. 191 )

701
% Io*, A camel.

6 ma®, Radical No. 187, a horse (See No. 261).
ko', Phonetic, to go on one’s way without
heeding others. (See No. 272).

th. As exhala-!
by inhalation,
s appropriate

3
Page-253
243

The camel is a beast of burden for which
5 ma® is a generic symbol. The camel
moves along the road apparently oblivious
to his surroundings ; thus the combination
is a happy one.

702
E‘E t'0*, A camel; to bear on the back, (of an
" animal).
JE ma®, Radical No. 187, a horse (See No. 261).

’E“Q t'0* Phonetic, another. Archaic meaning, a
cobra, or snake that raises its head from
its coil, enlarges its neck and darts out
its tongue, (W. 108 A). The head of this
reptile being large attracted attention, as
it seemed more than the body could sup-
port. Many of the characters which use
this as a phonetic have the meaning of to
bear or sustain. The camel is generally

used as a pack animal.

& ’@ yao', The loins, the waist.
. jou', Radical No. 130, meat, (See No. 133).

g yao*, Phonetic, to want, to need. Archaic,
the loins, the waist. (See No.16). Be-
cause the original meaning was usurped
by its present meaning, in order to make
a character for the waist the.radical for
flesh was added.

~ ﬁ ch’ung®, An insect, a reptile (See No. 232).
g?‘? ch’ung® Radical No. 142, a worm, a snake,
prohably the cobra.
K un’, Phonetic, insects that are numerous at
certain seasons of the year, such as flies,
Page-254
244

705%

706@

lice, locusts, mosquitoes and silk worms.
(W. 110 C). This phonetic is more of a
classifier than a phonetic and when the
radical is added the character takes the
sound of the radical.

The multiplication of one symbol indicates
that the character is used for something
which occurs in swarms or great numbers.

mi*, Honey.
EE ch’ung® Radical No. 142. An insect, a worm.

(See No. 232).

ofs mi', Phonetic, quiet, close, still, silent, secret.
4 q

From "™ mien?, a sheltered place, and %
pi* (See No. 504). When one is in a
dilemma, or has to decide (X% shoot) be-
tween two, (A pa' to divide), modes of
action, a quiet or secret place is desirable.
Both these qualities are included in the
phonetic. When ¥ ch’ung’, here used for
a bee, is added we have the character for
honey. The bees make their honey in the
darkness of a hollow tree or other secret
place.

wan', To draw a bow, bent, curved.
B} kung', Radical No. 57, a bow (See No. 55).

ﬁ, &ggi luan* Phonetic, to adjust, to quarrel. The

oldest writing represents a hand < dis-
entangling three threads %2; their lower
ends were contracted into + shik?, ten.
A later writing has § yér?, word, taking
the place of the middle thread, as the
untangling of thread; it done in common,
often leads to impatient words and re-
Page-255
707 %’ ﬁ¥

AR

708

HS

e

245

ciprocal fault finding; thus the mean-
ing of quarreling was developed. (W.
92 D). '

In shooting an arrow the bending of the
bow is very marked and so & kung'isa
fitting radical for the character meaning,
bent, curved .

chiek?, To loosen, to explain, to open, to untie.
chiao®, Radical No. 148, a horn. (See No. 250)

% The phonetic of this character is made
up of two radicals which do not occur
together in any other character and con—
sequently it has no pronunciation. £ %
X gives the following explanation,
# 719 4 # “ Dividing a cow’s horn with
a knife.” Horn is put to a number of uses
and this has been true for thousands of
years. Ahornbeing hard it was a difficult
operation to divide it; thus a symbol
which represents dividing a horn is used
as the symbol for to open. A bodkin, JJ,
made from the horn, i of an ox, 4, and
used to untie £ knots.

pleit, A mate, to pair, marriage.
yu*, Radical No. 164, a jug for holding wine.
fei', Phonetic, imperial concubine. A woman

% belonging to oneself B. Contracted
to & chi®. This combination of radical
and phonetic was used for the wine § yu’
drunk at a wedding feast 48 (contracted),
and eventulallyvit assumed the meaning of
mate or pair. (W. 84 A).
Page-256
246

e *l‘l I, Gain, interest, profit, acute. Archaic, to
cut grain,
7], l,l tao', Radical, No. 18, a knife, a reaping hook.
(See No. 37).

5&, * ho’, Phonetic, standing grain. (See No. 556).
In order to secure the benefits #J Ii, from
the ripened grain it was necessary to reap
it, in other words to cut JJ the stalks

x.
710
#@] le," %4, lei', To bridle, to curb, to restrain, to
force.
7] It*, Radical, No. 19, strength, force. (See No.
212).

Wi ® F o, Phonetic, hides, skins with the hair on.
(See No. 163). Leather or rawhide is
exceedingly strong, and with the addition
of Jr I, strength, a good symbol for to
curb or restrain is formed.

. %g Iieh, To crack, to split, to rip open.

IE i, Radical No. 145, clothing. (See No. 51).

§|J lieh*, Phonetic, to divide, seriatim.
The original writing of this phonetic was
S 85, a river, &, ch’uan' (See No. 598)
which on account of breaking its banks
has causedfgreat destruction ¥ ta#’, by cut-
ting 71, 1, new channels through the fields.
¥ tai®is A or A in seal writing ; these are
the human bhones as they are found after
the flesh has decayed; a symbol of mis-
fortune. Rivers have been the cause of
much misfortune in China by their form-
ing new channels.
Page-257
247

The addition of the radical & 7', formed a
character which originally meant the rem-
nants of cloth left after a garment was cut
out ; another old meaning was the sound
of the tearing of cloth ; but it is now used
only for the meaning given above.

712 4 . .
i fang’, To be like.

4 ch'ik', Radical No. 60, to step with the left
- foot.
D,E, »ﬁ féﬂg’ Phonetic, square. (See No. 503).
This seems to be a simple phonetic, but
the Shuo Wen says that the symbol is
composed of two boats tied together
forming a square, therefore the boats
must have been similar in shape and size,
. thus they resembled each other. The
radical F may have been selected because
a step with the left foot is naturally suc-
ceeded by one like it with the right foot.

713
b fi, Like.

,f ch’ik* Radical No. 60, a step with the left foot.

(See No. 78).
;B, % fu* Phonetic, (See No. 554).

This phonetic may have been selected as
the two rods or bows which are tied to-
gether are of equal strength and thus
neutralize each other, consequently they
are similar or alike. For the use of the
radieal see No. 712.

4 Aé. ko', A dove, a pigeon.
% niao®, Radical No. 196, a bird. (See No. 628).
4 ho*, Phonetic, harmony, agreement. (See No,

3
&
Page-258
248

1031. The fact that doves are not quar—
relsome caused the selection of this
phonetic.

o {E ts'ui’, To urge, to hasten.
A jén’®, Radical No. 9, a man.
E ts'ui’, Phonetic, very high, a high mountain;
a surname. This phonetic is made up of
i shan, a mountain, and 4 chuf, a
short-tailed bird. Grouse do not live on
the low hills but are found on the higher
hills and mountains, as they there find
ore seclusion and shelter. The addition
of the radical for man may have been
suggested by the energy required if one
wishes to follow a flock of rock grouse up
a mountain ; if this is tried the appro-
priateness of the composition of # is
never again questioned.

76 & shou', An animal, a brute.
j‘(’ # ch'iian® Radical No. 94, a dog, a pictorial re-
presentation of the animal. (See No. 424).
%‘. é shou* Phonetic, the domestic animals dis-
tinguished from & ch’in!, wild animals.
The domestic animals were B ma®, 4 nii?,
¥ vang’,  chi', R cRhian’ &K shilf, the
horse, cow, sheep, chicken, dog and pig.
The archaic writing depicts two ears,
then the head and below are the hind legs
and a tail. (W. 23.1) This symbol was
sufficient to convey the idea of domestic
animal but when the radical for dog is
added it means wild animals chased by
Page-259
249

dogs. The pictorial effect is unfortunately
entirely lost'in the modern writing.

77
ﬁ ) szir*, To wait upon, to examine, to spy.

A |\ jén?, Radical No. 9, a man.

T—f]a szit', Phonetic, to manage. This is J§ hou',
(a man F who orders O, a prince, and
by extension, a princess) reversed to
indicate the subordinate or servant who
receives orders. It is the imprint of
the prince. The prince has informed his
minister of his desire, impressed or im-
printed his ideas on him, and the latter
puts them into execution. When the
radical for man is added the character
represents the superior { with his atten—
dant B who waits upon him.

. m lieh*, Burning, fiery, virtuous.
m\,j( huo®, Radical No. 86, fire. (See No. 482).
ﬁu lieh*, Phonetic, to arrange in order (See No.
711). With the radical X we have the
fierceness of fire added to floods.

719
ﬁ wang®, A net.

s mi* ssit* Radical No. 120, silk.  (See No. 8).

E] wang?®, Phonetic, a net, to capture with a net.
The idea of capturing or taking is set
forth by & wang? to destroy, (See No.
123). Owing to the B wang® being
written in an abbreviated form, the
radical for silk is placed at the side.

720
ﬁ shao, A little, to diminish.
Page-260
250

721 zﬁ

722%

* he* Radical No. 115, standing grain. (See

No. 556).

ﬁ hsiao* Phonetic, like, similar. The archaic

meaning was, to be likc. one’s father,
not a degenerate. The idea of small is
attached to this phonetic as the child is
smaller than the parent. A small piece
of the father’s flesh. *“ A chip off the old
block.” When &K ho’ a stalk of grain, a
very small thing, is added the character
stands for the above.

ya’, Elegant, decorous, polished, cultured.
'E chui* Radical, No. 172, a short-tailed bird.

(See No. 21).

 ya?, Phonetic, a tooth. (See No. 97).

There is evidence that this character was
originally written & but H hu', reciprocal,
being very similar to ¥ ya*, the latter
has entirely supplanted the old form and
¥ va’, hasfthe advantage of being a per-
fect phonetic,but, devoid of any suggestion
of elegance, H hu', conveys the ideas of
satisfaction. A person who is reciprocal
is courteous and is generally in high favor.

chao', To beckon, to call, to proclaim.
¥ =P shoi, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
E chao*, Phonetic, to summon, to call. The

archaic meaning was to criticise,—to use
the mouth as a knife 7J. With the addi-
tion of the radical & it has the meaning
of to beckon:#3, as the hand is used in
that act. This isa term used in summon-
ing a person to appear at court.
Page-261
723 [‘? bu"?, To call, to expel the breath.

1 K ou®, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
ﬂ}. {% hu" * Phonetic, an exclamation ; an interroga-
! tive, a sigh; a sound which is uttered
after the completion of a sentence. The
T ch'iacd’ is the breath meeting with an
obstruction. The < is composed of
pieh!, a sign of action and A pa', to dis+
perse or scatter. The obstruction is over-
come. The difference between impeded
respiration and unimpeded, is taken as
a symbol for wonderful. (See No. 258,
853). The radical for mouth is added to

indicate a call.

e ,é‘, % hsi, To produce interest, to stop, a full breath,
respiration.
JL» hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).
E tzir', Phonetic, - self, the nose (See No. 104).
The Chinese believe that during a full
breath the 5& c&'1* of the heart is expelled
when the outside air istbrought in through
the nose B and goes to the heart iy, As
breathing is necessary for the maintenance
of life, the meaning was extended to in-
terest,on a loan, a requirement necessary
for the continuance of the loan.
725

%{L

hsiin', To instruct, to teach, to exhort, to
persuade.
S yér, RadicalNo. 149, a word.  (See No. 10).
n cKh uan', Phonetic, a river. (See No. 598).
Instruction should be continuous as the
flow of a river, a continual flow of words,
“For it is precept upon precept, precept
Page-262
252
upon precept; line upon line, line upon
line ; here 4 little, there a little.”

% ﬁ ch’iian’ Authority, power ; the pee of a steel-
yard.
AR mut, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).
Eg kuan' Phonetic, the heron. (See No. 428,
511).
At first glance it is difficult to understand
why # is used as the phonetic of this
character, but a study of the characters
which use this phonetic, plus the habits
of the bird as set forth in & K, Kuei Shih
Shuo Wen, aid in the understanding of
its use. The heron is supposed to an-
nounce by his call the approach of rain;
hence he is possessed of great intelligence.
He stands by the hour in the water mo-
tionless, watching for food ; when within
reach, action is prompt and sure. His
common name is # %5, *“ the old waiter,”
or ““ patient waiter.” Probably the poised
attitude suggested the use of this phonetic
with wood &K, (the steelyard beam being
made of wood), as a fitting symbol, for
the pee on the steelyard. The string
suspending the pee resembles the long
neck and its shape is not unlike the body
of the bird. The pee only indicates the
weight when in precisely the correct posi-
tion, thus it is just and unwavering.
For these reasons, authority and ability
to give a just decision, are given to this
character by extension.
Page-263
"

729

S

¥

253

ping®, Authority, a handle.
7R mut, Radical No. 75, wood (See No. 22).
VA ping’ Phonetic, the 3rd of the ten stems, re-

ferring to fire. (See No. 437).

Fire has authority over wood, hence the
combination, to the Chinese mind, is sug-
gestive of authority. Wood, in a sense,
is the handle by which fire can secure a
hold on the structure.

wu', Foul, unclean, stagnant water.
7‘/,7]( shuf®, Radical No. 85. (See No. 79).
§ K’ ua', Phonetic, to boast, to overpraise.
7‘1‘,3"‘ vi® Phonetic, the breath, % having overcome

an obstruction,—spreads in all directions.
—It seems reasonable to think that this
character was originally written #F i.e. 47
vii’, a basin, a tub, with the addition of
water ¥ ; it is the symbol of water which
has been used for washing.

fu', To be near, to follow, to lean on, possessed

by.

B . B fu fou' Radical No. 170, a mound. (See No.

493).

'ﬁ' fii*, Phonetic, to give. (See No. 672).

Tuan Shih Bt & Shuo Wen explains this
character more fully than the others.
R & fou' is a mound or small hill. A
foothill looks up to the mountain, a small
state must do the same with reference to
a large, powerful state, and is obliged to
adopt the customs and usages of the
latter and pay it tribute, f¥.
Page-264
254

730 w

781 == <
H K

732

miehk!, To put out (as a fire), to destroy, to

exterminate.

77K shui®, Radical No. 85, water (See No. 79).

Jﬁ mieh* Phonetic, to extinguish or kill ; JX hsiit

to wound — 7', with a halberd IR yieh,
and X fire. This phonetic was originally
the full character, but later water was
added to indicate the substance used to
extinguish fire. (W. 71 P.)

tse’, chai®* To reprove, to punish, to lay a
P!

charge on; duty, to be responsible.

N per®, Radical No. 154, valuable. (See No. 38).
F IR %t t2'u* Phonetic, thorns. Tt represents a thorny

tree. The modern writing entirely changes
this phonetic so that no trace of thorns
remains. There are two meanings of this
character: 1. To reprove or to punish.
The thorns # tz'u’, indicate torture, and
R pei* indicates a fine. 2. The care and
worry, ¥ tz'u', of property, R pei’. The
possession of property brings responsibili~
ty. (W. 120 H.)

ch’ou', To draw out, to shrink, to levy.

4; $ shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No.53).
Ha $ yu, Phonetic, from, origin. The old writing

represents a sprout which is drawing its
strength and nourishment from the seed.
There is another old writing of #ii which
has 8 & liv’, to keep, retain, for phonetic;
when ¥ show® is added, ¥, the idea is
that the hand is taking away a part, but
something is still left, /iu® §1,= &.
Page-265
255

733 I‘* ﬁg chen*, To arrange, to form into ranks, a regi-

@ F% ch’

 

PE R

ment of soldiers.

er’, To arrange, to state to a superior, old,

stale.

Radical, No. 170, an elevation. (See No.
493).
There are two phonetics in the old writ-
ings of this character. One is 1 3 shen'.
Chalfant regards this as a symbol for a
thunderbolt, something terrible ; the shock
of their serried phalanx, the ancient war—
riors may have been pleased to liken to a
thunderbolt. The other form is ¥ 3, not
3 tung}, east, but two hands supporting
or planting a tree. It seems to indicate
the planting of trees on a hillside, perhaps
a park. The present forms of the char-
acter seem to be a combination of these
two old forms. (W 50 H.)

734
ﬁ feng', Leprosy, scrofula, paralysis, insanity.
J ni* Radical No. 104, sickness.  (See No. 593).
m feng', Phonetic, wind.

The Chinese divided the wind into eight
kinds, east, west, north, south, and north-
east, etc. Some were regarded as having
good and some as having bad influences.
This is not an old character and is not
described in the 3%, but leprosy or in-
sanity was supposed to be caused by bad
- wind. Rabies in dogs is attributed
to the evil influences of a certain kind
of wind.

735
% ching®, Terrified, alarmed.
Page-266
256

736 —%:

738%

E ma’, Radical, No. 187, a horse. (See No. 261).

& ching', Phonetic, to reverence. (See No. 407).
The terror & which a horse /& experiences
in the presence of that which he regards
as being more powerful than himself.

ya', To wonder at, admire, to take exceptions
to.
% yer?, Radical No. 149, a word. (See No. 10).
¥ ya®*, Phonetic, a tooth. (See No. 97).
Tuan Shih BZ | says that this character,
originally written %, meant to meet, or
receive a guest; when one meets a noted
person there is a feeling of awe or fear. It
now is used for surprised, or to wonder at.

plen', p'ien', Everywhere.

,f ch’ik* Radical No. 60, a footprint of the left
foot, or a step with the left foot.

ﬁ pien®, Phonetic, flat ; an inscription hung over
the door. Kuei Shih’s Shuo Wen # K 5%
% explains this phonetic as the official
register of the inhabitants of the Empire,
B m #. Therefore it must include all.
With the addition of  ch’ik’, to go, the
idea of going to every house in the land is
set forth.

t'ang®, To lie down, to lie.

E’ shen', Radical No. 158, the body. (See No.
291).

f;':i shang®, Phonetic, a house. (See No. 52).
This is an unauthorized character and is
not found in old dictionaries. The ety-
mology of it is not difficult. When lying
Page-267
257

down %4 persons desire a roof fi above
them to protect their bodies % from heat,
cold or storms.

739 J
‘bz la',‘ To draw, to pull, to lead.
$ show®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
j: I*, Phonetic, to set up, to rise, instantly. (See

No. 216).

The old writing of this character was #
Ia', which indicated the putting forth of
great strength, but as the three Jy Ii*
characters were more difficult to write
than 3¢ Ii*, to stand, the latter was sub-
stituted, and its use is explained thus: in
exerting great strength in pulling one has
to stop and take a firm stand.

740
#& f*, To uphold, to help.
ZF shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
7& fi', Phonetic, a husband, a man. (See No.

234). Kuei Shih # K # & says %, &t R
#% a husband. The hand of the husband
assists the wife and the meaning is now
extended to any kind of assistance.

71 ) )
! 5& tui*, To retreat, to decline.
§_ cho' Radical, No. 162, action. (See No. 10).

B, s ts'u

i Phonetic ; to refuse, to retreat; to have
walked with difficulty i all day long ©,
and refuse to go farther, or to go back-~
ward on account of the difficulties of ad-

' vancing. This phonetic may have been

suggested because the sun, each morning,
slowly ascends until midday, when the
indications are that it will continue to go
Page-268
258

5

higher ; but at noon it starts to descend.
With the addition of i_ it forms the char-
acter for to retreat. Compare No. 402,
to advance.

chii*, To gather, to é,ssemb!e.
er’, Radical, No. 128, the ear. (See No. 71).

m‘ éq ch'i¥*, Phonetic, to lay hands on, to take. (See

743 %’ ;gi

No. 578). The oldest use of this phonetic
was for the cutting off of the left ear of
captives and presenting them to the officer
in command ; this was evidence of the
number of captives taken. The meaning
gradually extended to the holding of per-
sons and things in general. When three
men 7k chung are added it is the symbol
of an assembly brought together X by the
desire of people to hear H what is to be
said ; thus the speaker, figuratively, holds
his audience by the ear. This character
is not composed of radical and phonetic
as most characters are, as the radical is
part of the phonetic and the three men are
still unaccounted for, but their presence
has a logical significance. (W. 27 K.)

chf’, To assemble, to collect, a fair.
£ chui'Radical No. 172, a short-tailed bird.

(See No. 21).

IR mut, Phonetic, wood or tree. This character

was originally written A three lines com-
ing together at the ends forming a triangle.
It was afterwards supplanted by a tree
with three birds on it, and later the num-~
ber was reduced to one. (W. 14 A,119G).
Page-269
744 ﬁa
1

7455‘3

2

746%

259

.

pan', A comrade, to attend on.
jén?, Radical No. 9, a man.
! 4:: pan', Phonetic, half. (See No. 118).

When 1 jén® is added to this phonetic the
idea is set forth that two persons are
usually seen together and are regarded as
a pair and one is the half of the pair. A
single man A is but half 4% a lman. The
usage is not limited to two persons, only ;
it is applied to several persons whose
vocation necessitates their being together.

chur*, To pursue, to follow.
3_ cho'Radical No. 162, to go, or to pursue.

(See No. 10).

FJ‘ tui', Phonetic, a terrace, ramparts, a city.

(See No. 310) With the addition of 3_ cho'
the idea may have been to follow the
person or enemy even down to his strong--
hold, to his ramparts. This phonetic is
also used for troops which guard the city
and thus this character is sometimes ex—
plained as the legion on the march pursu-
ing an enemy. (W. 86 B).

lin®, Near, contiguous, neighbor.

&, R i Radical No. 163, a city. (See No. 11).

747 ﬂ

;E Ilin® Phonetic, an ignis fatuus. (See No. 588).

The reason for using this phonetic in the
character for ‘‘mear” is owing to the
necessity of being within close proximity
to an ignis fatius before it is seen. A city
which is not farther away than this light
is visible must be close at hand.

chiel?, Pure, clean, neat, tidy.
Page-270
260

748

749 E

 

 

 

 

7]( .‘/ shui®, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
§§ chiel® Phonetic, to adjust, to regulate.

Tuan Shih B | says that # ck'i* in this
combination indicates the cutting of a
bundle of hemp threads, thus making them
of one length and the 3 signifies that
they are tied up into bundles after having
been washed ¢ and cleansed.

¥én’, Stern, majestic, strict, tight.
B Kod’, Radical No. 30, the mouth. (See No.

17).

MI?TQ yén® Phonetic, to lay hold of a person and

force him to move forward. The mbddern
writing is quite different from the original;
that shows a hand striking % sha® a
bear B & (as in & kan® sec No. 545) in a
cave J yen’, accompanied with great
outcries ®¢ hsdan'. The modern meaning
emphasises the sternness of outcry, such
as is heard in the court when the magis-
trate browbeats a witness. (W. 146
H).

chu®, To order, to enjoin upon.
[} Ko#’, Radical No. 30, the mouth. (See No.

17).

E}% shu® Phonetic, a tail, an appendage. This is

made up of B wef’, tail, contracted, and
& shu’, a silkworm in the process of spin—
ning its thread ; as the worm is constantly
moving during this operation, this part
of the phonetic indicates motion. Thus
the two parts indicate a tail which is
Page-271
750 %

751 ﬁ

752 @

261

constantly wagging. When O Kou® is
added it seems to indicate a last injunc-
tion, an appendage or command added
after the business has been talked through.

For another meaning of % shu® see No.
800. .

chin®, Watchful, respectful.
E‘:f yén’, Radical No. 149, words. (See No. 10).
%% chin® Phonetic, yellow, % contracted and earth
&, potter’s clay, loess. (W. 171 B.)
When & yen?is added the idea may have
been that one should be as careful and
watchful as to what he says as a potter
is in shaping the clay.
shén®, Cautien, attentive.
P, 4> hsird, Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).

E chén', Phonetic, true. (See No. 218). A true
heart is cautious and attentive.

mo'?, To feel, to rub with the hand, to caress.
= shor, Radical, No, 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
ﬁ ma?®, Phonetic, hemp. (See No. 24). Painters
use wads of hemp for rubbing oil into
wood and for painting.
It is probable that this character was
formerly written # as ¥ mo® to grind,
and the character under consideration are
sometimes interchanged. [ may have
been first used as the symbol for rubbing
the hands together, the hands acting as
the upper and nether mill-stones f and
gradually it was used for any kind of
rubbing.
Page-272
262

753 %

754 %

755 %

756 ﬁ

chéng*, Evidence, proof.

'§ yén®, Radical No. 149, word. (See No. 10).
% téng', Phonetic, to ascend. (See No. 240 and

243).
This phonetic indicates climbing to a high
platform and # is to proclaim, from a
high platform, to publish abroad.

chii*, Evidence, according to.
F shou", Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
ﬁ chii* Phonetic, wild boar, to fight, to struggle.

A wild boar %, shil®, and a tiger & hu®
fighting, and neither one letting go his
grip on the other, (W. 69 D.) With the
addition of hand the idea of holding firmly
is set forth. Evidence is that which a
person affirms and holds without waver-
ing in spite of any opposition.

yang?, To display, to publish; to extend; to

winnow.

$ . show, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
5‘% yang’, Phonetic, to expand, glorious. (See

No. 541) The hand placed beside the
phonetic indicates that something is ex-
hibited in bright light in order that all
may know and understand.

chk’at’, To break, to destroy.
;]’$ shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand.
h‘; )‘% ch’il', Phonetic, to attack. (See No. 288) an

abbreviation of ji. This means to attack,
¥ i (itis F kan' doubled and means
that it is repeated attacks) a man in his
Page-273
263

own house F* yen’. When the hand is
added it stands for to break or to destroy.
(W. 102. D).

% E's wo', To lie down.

Ei chén?, Radical No. 131, a minister, a states—
man. (See No. |20).

,f , A Jjén?, Phgnetic, a man. The proper position
for a man in the presence of an official
was the prone posture, and the above
symbol is used for, *“to lie down.” (W.
82 F).

- % ju*, A mattress, a cushion.
% 2% #, Radical No. 145, clothing. (See No. 51).
@ ]‘—‘ ju*, Phonetic, to shame, to insult, to reveal
T with the hand ~F 8 a disgraceful condi-
tion, [k ch’ér’, to be pregnant (See No.
122). The B ju* scems to be a simple
phonetic and the radical & indicates that
the mattress is made of cloth.

s

L %ﬁ chur®, A cord, to let down by a rope.
% ssiit, mi* Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).
iﬁ chui*, Phonetic, to pursue, to follow. (SeeNo.
745).
The radical here indicates a rope or cord
and the article suspended follows the
lowering or raising of the rope.

780 ﬁ shui*, Tax, duty on merchandise.
5& ho? Radical No. 115, growing grain. (See
No. 556).

E,ﬁ tui®, Phonetic, to exchange, to barter. (See
Page-274
264

No. 72). The character indicates the
giving of grain & fo’ to ‘the government
for the privileges derived.

761
I, s I, An officer, a magistrate. (See No. 231).

3 Zow?, Radical No. 30, .the mouth. (See No.
17).

4 chang', Phonetic, ten feet. (See No. 368).
In the seal writing the basis of the char-
acter ¥ is ¥ §t shih®, a scribe, a hand
holding a stylus. This is also the char-
acter for history, as it was the work of
the scribes to record history. 3 /i* has
one stroke above the # ; thisis a contrac-
tion of Lk shang'. Thus this character
stands for those scribes who were direc-
tors or rulers of the literati.

 

,ﬁ hsi®, A mat, a table, a repast, a feast.
chin', Radical No. 50, a napkin, a towel. (See
No. 143).

E shu* Phonetic, all (contracted) ; all the indivi-
duals of the house gathered about the
light of the hearth to eat. In ancient
times meals were served on a flat surface
made of stone, and the family partook
while reclining. The f% is composed of
J* yén', the house, and X kuang’, light.
The light of the fire was all the illumina-
tion they had. The i chin' was originally
written @ and is described as being a flat
stone on which the meal was served:
This eventually gave place to a mat. fg
shu* is a logical element rather than a
phonetic.
Page-275
mﬁr‘

o

765
2%

265

Kang', Joy, peace, repose ; healthy, delightful.
yén® Radical No. 53, a shelter. (See No, 132).

The phonetic is not easily separated, as
itis only in the modern writing that JV
yén® arbitrarily appears. B¢ f§ kéng' (a
pestle in two hands) is the hulling of rice,
and BERH is the same, save that in the
latter rice % is represented. A grain of
rice was firm and could stand the violence
to which it was subjected in the process
of hulling. The meaning of peace, repose,
and satisfaction is supposed to refer to
the rest which came after the labor of
hulling the daily portion of rice. (W.
102 B).

chien*, Strong, vigorous.
’f s }\ Jjén?, Radical No. 9, a man.
@ .’é chien®, Phonetic, to write regulations # yi*

(See No. 7), for the march & % yin®
(archaic; long strides, 7 ch'ih* lengthened
out). (W. 169 B). A man who was
able to fulfil the regulations was strong
and vigorous.

chint, To prohibit.
;‘J‘; shikt, Radical No. 111, to reveal. (See No.

164).

# lin®, Phonetic, a forest ; indicated by doubling

the radical for tree. Z bad omens =~
from trees fk. (W. 119 M). The &
when seen was regarded as a-revelation
of divine or supernatural disapproval, and
thus the character stands for prohibition.
Page-276
266

766 E‘ Iang®, A son, a bridegroom, gentleman, secre-

tary. .
8 R # Radical No. 168, a city. (See No. 11).
B liang®, Phonetic, good. (See No. 445).

The character B§ was formerly the name
of a city—a city of excellence. The mean-
ing given above was an expression of the
hope of the family in the son or bride-
groom, that he would bring benefits equal
to that of a powerful city.

767 . e B .
‘ p'et, To entertain, to visit with, to aid, to
match ; to add earth about the roots of
plants.

—%-. B fi* Radical No. 170, a mound. (See No. 493).
%, rﬁ t'ou* Phonetic, to cut a speaker short by
interrupting him. The dot » on the top
indicates the interruption, and the % fou®
is an adverb of negation i.e. saying O no
&. This seems like a strange phonetic to
be used in a character which means “to
visit with,” but persons when chatting are
constantly intcrrupting one another as
they speak, in order to get the real mean-
ing, or to correct a wrong statement. If
one is not on intimate terms with the

speaker this is not possible.

s Hﬁ, ﬁ)ﬁ fu?, To manage a boat (archaic), to yield to,
to assent, to serve, clothes.
H yiiel', Radical No. 74, moon. (See No. 43).
&) ﬁ’\ fi® Phonetic, to hold the seal, authority.
In the modern writing A yiieh* has sup-
planted f chou', a boat, and consequently
the etymology is not apparent without a
Page-277
769%

770 *@

A%

i

.3

267

study of the old writing which reptesents
the hand X which wields the authority P
on the boat fit, the captain. The charact-
er also sets forth the opposite of to govern,
viz., to be governed ; this is the action of
the boat under the direction of the captain,
to yield, to assent to; to be attached to,
as to a girdle, therefore, clothes.

tai', A bag, a pocket, a purse, sash.

1', Radical No. 145, clothing. (See No. 51).

chin', Radical No. 50, cloth. (See No. 143).
R tai*, Phonetic, a substitute. Order X of suc-

cession or substitution of men; a reign;
to supersede ; a dynasty.

It may have been the custom, when onc
T jén® got a substitute to give him a tally
& 7%, (See No. 576) which when presented
allowed him to occupy the position of the
one for whom he was substituting. The
addition of & or M may have been sug-
gested when trying to carry grain or fine
material, a cloth fi or the clothing &
when used to carry it could take the place
of many persons.

ckia', To pinch, to claw ; to twist.
shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No.53).
a hsien* Phonetic, a pit, a pitfall, a snare. This

comes from A chiu', a mortar, or hole in
the ground or rock for pounding grain. &
hsien'is a pitfall or trap with a man in it.
When # shou’ is added the idea is that
with the hand something is held securc as
if in a trap.
Page-278
ho' Radical No. 115, standing grain. (See
No. 556).

% hui* Phonetic, grace, kindly. (See No. 385)
This is not the original phonetic of this
character, but it has become generally
used. It may be that it was used asa
recognition of the grace of heaven, X
t'ien, in giving the increase of the field ;
or the gracious part of the standing grain
is that where the seed is borne. The
original writing was & & suf, a hand
gathering the heads of grain.

268
77 ﬁ sui*, flead of grain, ear.

772
ﬁ wet*, To escort, to defend, a military station,
Tientsin.
AT hsing’, Radical No. 144, to walk. (See No.
) 161).

ﬁ, § wei* Phonetic, refractory ; thongs, rawhide.
Two men pulling & in opposite directions
on an object O, or hide, in tanning it. #. =
X P the reverse of = . The indicates
opposition, refractory. Compare % $ &
ch’iian’®, opposition, error. The refractory
have to be bound with leather thongs,
hence the meaning leather. As leather is
strong and used to protect delicate articles
it is here a suggestive phonetic. The
addition of the radical 47 indicates the
guarding of something while on the march.

773
ch’iieh’, Deficient, a vacancy ; broken, defective.

—:ﬁ’$ fou® Radical, No. 121, earthenware. (See No.

264).
Page-279
269

3&1 ; chiiel’ Phonetic, to divide, to break. (See No.
109). A dish ff ford, which is broken 3
is deficient.

4
m 2 __ 1@ In want, poor, weary.
T p'iel Radieal, No. 4, a stroke to the left. (See
No. 176). .

2. U chilt, Phonmetic, a i & chik® written back-
wards. The explanation is: a person
whe IE stopped before reaching the line —.
‘Fhe inference is that he was exhausted. Z
has nothing to do with the sign of the
possessive Z Y chih'.

B @L}% chi*, Dearth, hungry.

ﬁ shik?, Radical No. 184, food, to eat. (See No.
5).

J'L chi', Phonetic, a small table ; a contraction for
.

& chi*?, Phonetic, little. (See No. 34).
When food 4 is scarce # a small table JL,
is large enough. When food is scarce #
it is a time of dearth fll. The character’s
original meaning seems to have been
dearth or famine and hungry is an exten-
sion, as hunger is the common condition
during famine.

776
% o', ¢!, Hungry.
ﬁ shil?, Radical No. 184, food, to eat. (See No.
75).
& wo, Phonetic, I.  (See No. 2). This character
" according to Kuei Shih Shuo Wen # & 3
7 was originally written # o*, $h £ szit',
Page-280
270

to feed, and & me. It was contracted to
the present form.

i *ﬁ ki, Dry, decayed, withered, (as a palsied
limb).
AR mit, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).
<& J2f, 0. Phonetic. (See No. 17). Old wood
is probably decayed.

778
ﬁ Kuei', To peep, to spy.

hsiiel’, Radical No. 116, a cave. (See No. 97).
33, AR kuer, Phonetic, to shoot an arrow (archaic) ;
rule, custom. (See No. 529). To shoot
#R a glance through an opening ’x hstieh’.
The present writing of # breaks up the
etymology, as the & fiz should be %& shik®.
In archery the eye aims along the arrow
shaft ; but here the eye shoots a glance

through an opening.

79 % K ung®, To rein in, to draw a bow, to check,
to accuse.
F ¥ shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
7% K'ung', Phonetic, vacant, empty. (See No.
302).
This phonetic plus the radical seems to
have been first used for drawing the bow;
in shooting an arrow one increases the
vacant space £ k'ung', between the string
and the bow. In prosecuting a person it
was not unlike shooting an arrow at him;
if the accusation was substantiated, the
defendant suffered perhaps more than if
hit by an arrow.
Page-281
™ L

781@

"R

™ B

271

chou', Completely, to extend everywhere.

[ Kou®Radical No. 30, the mouth. (See No.
17). Here it is a modern replacement of
B contracted to 7. This character is a
primitive compound which cannot be
broken up into radical and phonetic. It
is J§ il yung' (See No. 476) and % chi,
to reach to, contracted, (See No. 324).
Every bull’s eye has been hit. Efficiency
is expressed in this character.

wer’, To surround, to inclose.

n wei® Radical No. 31, an enclosure. (See No.
28).

$ wei® Phonetic, thongs, rawhide, refractory.
(See No. 772). The meaning of the pho-
netic may be that B is a leather case
protecting that which is precious, but
more probably it means refractory, & and
therefore when it is in [T it means ‘““incar-
cerated.”

ch’ ou?, Grieved, sad.

> hsia', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No.18).

ﬂ( ck’iu!, Phonetic, autumn, harvest. (See No.
169).
In the autumn the grain is often blighted
with frost and appears as if scorched with
fire %. When one’s desires are thus
blighted, it causes sadness of heart.

 

ying*, Hard, obstinate.
A shilt, Radical No. 112, stone. (See No. 42).
ﬁ keng"*, Phonetic, to change. {(See No. 226).
With the addition of stone £ shil® the
idea is to.change and become hard like
Page-282
272

i

i

e

" H

 

!

stone. This refers either to a physical or
mental change.

shen', To stretch out, to explain.
) ’f jen®, Phonetic No. 9, a man.

ﬂ! shen', Phonetic, to extend, to stretch. (See
No. 227) A man who is taking a rope and
measuring off a fathom, six feet, with his
ontstretched arms. A man who is able
to explain or straighten out the tangled
cord. :

hsi', Rare, seldom.
1j} chin', Radical No. 50, cloth. (See No. 143).
The phonetic here is not a character which
is separated from the radical. It repre-
sents the texture of cloth X and the m
chin* was placed below. As the threads
are clearly seen it conveys the idea of
loose as opposed to close ; thus by exten-
sion scattered, rare, seldom. (W. 39 G).

L%, Statute, law.
4 ch'ib' Radical No. 60, to step with the left foot.
$ wii* Phonetic, to write. (See No. 7).
With the addition of # ch'ik* the char-
acter is used for written regulations for
the march, and by extension, law.

tang®, A clan, a faction, an associate, a cabal.

2 phe!, Radical, No. 208, black. (See No. 178).
fl',-] shang', Phonetic, a house. (See No. 52).

The Shuo Wen says that the 2 indicates

that the members.of this society are all

smoked with one smoke, that is that they
Page-283
273

meet together in the same room. They
meet in the dark B, secretly, form a cabal.
The #f shang® here represents the leader
of thie clan or association.

74 % yung"®, To erowd, to gather in a crowd, to
) embrace.

F.F shorw, Radical No. 64, the hand.

%% yung* Phonetic, a city ; harmeony, union ; the
wagtail. The first is the old form of the
character, a city & with a moat { em-
bracing it, but the second form is now in
general use. & = > and & = ¥ as in #.
With 4£ it means the bird that haunts the
borders of moats and ponds in harmonious
flocks, the wagtail. (W. 12 G). This
phonetic is used to express harmony of
action, and with the addition of the
radical & it means to jam or press as a
crowd, and embrace with the arms.

L ﬂ eht*, To crowd, to press out.
? ;]: shou?, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
'ﬁ ch'i*, Phonetic, even, together. (See No. 455).
“The hands F working together #, to
crowd, to press #.

™ 'ﬂg fif!, To stoop, to bow, to condescend.
A‘ /f jen?, Radical No. 9, a man.
’H fu*, Phonetic, a palace. (See No. 388).
This is not an old character, but it has
come into general use. The etymology is
apparent: When a man A comes to an
official department Jif to pay his taxes ff,
the customs of China require him to show
Page-284
274

respect and reverence to the official in
charge. Thus by extension to bow and
condescend, ff.

791 ﬁ fu*, To fall prostrate, to fall on the face, to lie
in ambush; a decade in dog days; to
subject.

A, ’f jen®, Radical No. 9, a man.

j‘( ch'iian’® Phonetic, a dog, a pictorial representa-
tion. {k is a man A taking the cringing
attitude of a dog K or compelling another
to take it, i.e. to humble or subject
another. (See No. 647) (W. 25 E).

= ﬁ hsien® Conspicuous, to make plain, glorious.

E yeh', Radical No. 181, the head, a page, a
man. (See No. 105).

§ hsien® Phonetic, motes in a sunbeam, volatile,
minute, fibrous. When a sunbeam H
shines into a dark room, small motes like
silk fibres, #& ssu’, become visible i float-
ing in it. When H yeh!, the head, is
added the original idea was that the
decorations of the hat were very apparent.
The character is now used for anything
conspijcuous.

s % lou* In*, Dew ; low*, plain, to expose, to disclose.
R ¥, Radical No. 173, rain. (See No. 61).

% Iu*, Phonetic, road. (See No. 279). & & Kuei

Shih say’s—% # & Z i . 5% % 0 H “Dew

is the secretion of the dark, female power

of nature, dew comes from the earth.”

Lu* 3% seems to be used for earth #i as

rain from the earth instead of the ordinary
Page-285
R

R

275

rain of heaven. Rain that wets the feet
only, as when walking in grass wet with
dew. :

“The dew is the path ¥ of the rain ,
and when it falls on grass it turns it white
disclosing each stem and leaf.”

Kuang®, Mad, wild, raging : presumptuous.
jﬁ ch'iian® Radical No. 94, a dog, a pictorial

character.

EE, ﬁ wang® Phonetic, rambling. (See No. 350).

This character indicates that dogs have
suffered from rabies in China from the
very beginning of their civilization. This
character is described as a mad dog. The
animal wanders around from place to
place without any definite aim, and thus
this is a very apt phonetic for this disease.
The character is not confined to this one
disease, it is at present used for any kind
of mania.

yii*, To instfuct, to illustrate.
1 Kou’, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
yi* Phonetic, a small boat, a primitive barge,

sampan, =%, san' pan®, # Z 4 . “ The
commencement of boat-building.” Joining
A chi® of planks to form a boat f to sail
the rivers § kuai*. With the addition of
O K ou®, the mouth, the idea is conveyed
of giving instructions in the building of
the boat; by extension instructions of
any kind.

K'un®, To bind, to hamper.
Page-286
276

W&
* &

.

shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
K un', Phonetic, confined. There are two writ-

ings of this phonetic 1. 3, to stop and
rest by a tree, to take a nap under a tree;
II. W a trec which is hemmed in [T we?,
by rocks or large trees, and thus restricted
in growth, or wilting from confine-
ment. This last is the one which is in
general use. The addition of hand implies
that there is an act of repression. It
seems probable that these were two
different characters but they have become
merged into one. The reason for this
view is, the two meanings, viz., sleepy
and cramped and hemmed in. The first
seal writing is in accord with the idea of
sleepy, to stop I under a tree & and take
a nap. Itis difficult to explain why this
character should have the two meanings
had it sprung from one symbol.

tan"*, To carry a burden on a pole, a load or

burden.

F ¥ shout, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
B chan' Phonetic, to talk impudently. (W. 59

H).

This is from f* we!, a man A standing
on a dangerous crag J~ (See No. 634), and
A pa', to scatter, and § yér?, words; to
recklessly scatter indiscreet words. The
radical F indicates that the character
was first used as a verb. One who talks
indiscreetly has a heavy, dangerous bur-
den to bear and this éventually has been
Page-287
277

extended to mean a burden of any kind.

%96 -1 (W. 39 H). .
0| miao®, A sprout, the sprout of grain; wild
tribes. *
¢ ¢s'ao’, Radical No. 140, grass.  (See No. 22).
m t’fer”, Phonetic, a field. (See No. 212).
The sprouting vegetation W of the culti-
vated field H. That which is planted just
appearing ahove the ground, &. (W.
149 B).
= uﬁ shait, Bright sunlight, to dry in the sun.

m E] Jik', Radical No. 72, the sun. (See No. 12).
g Ii*!, Phonetic, elegant. This phonetic original-
Iy meant antelope, deer,  etc., animals
which lived in droves, but it carly took
on the meaning of elegant, perhaps owing
to the graceful appearance of the animals.
The upper part ™ I#*, is a primitive repre-
senting decoration. These animals were
decorated with horns. [ Ju' deer is a
picture # of horns, body, feet and tail.
V4 hsi', Phonetic, west.  (See No. 26). The west~
ern sun is much warmer than the eastern,
thus this is a suggestive addition to the
character, but, like the other phonetic, is
without phonetic significance.

800
% ti?, Solitary, only, childless.
X z . ?f ch'iian Radical No. 94, a dog. A pictorial
representation. .

/ﬁ_ §$ shu® Phonetic, a silkworm spinning its thread.
(See No. 749) (W. 54 I). If a silkworm
is spinning a cocoon it is working alone
Page-288
278

"8

802 M
B

ao

1
s

and for itself, and when this phonetic is
used -in this combination the idea of
“solitary 7 is derived from the above
fact. As dogs do not usually roam about
in packs the dog radical is appropriate to
form the character for solitary or alone.

The southwest corner of a room, where
the Lares were placed, mysterious.

j( ta', Radical No. 37, large. (See No. 54).

This character cannot be broken up into
radical and phonetic. The above' radical
is arbitrarily given to it in the ‘modern
writing. The Shuo Wen says theé cha—
racter stands for the south-west corner of
the room N mien?, the dark corner, where
one is obliged to grope with the hands
f in order to differentiate 3k pien* the
articles. 3k ® pien* is the track of a wild
animal and these were easily distinguish-
ed, the one from the other, only by hunters
or those who frequently saw them; thus
this is a symbol for discrimination (See
No. 837). As there was more or less
obscurity about such a corner, by exten-
sion the character has acquired the mean—
ing of mysterious. (W. 123 F).

mi*, pi*, Secret, private, divine.

718 shik', Radical No. 113, spititual influences-

(See No. 164). Written % with a pen'#8.

ﬂ‘( ho?, Radical No. 115, standing grain. (See

" No. 556).

L‘Z\ pt*, Phonetic, must. (See No. 504).
Page-289
SOSE

R

805%

219

i pi* originally was used as a term for a
god or deity and the manifestations of
his will must & be complied with.  is
another writing of the same character.
The meaning of secret may have originat-
ed from the fact that the will of the gods
could not be known unless set forth by
revelation or omen.

chan', A part of a day, briefly, temporarily.
H 7it*, Radical No. 72, the sun. (See No. 12).
gi. §ﬁ chan’®, Phonetic, to decapitate, to cut in two.

This phonetic is a war chariot with
scythes according to the Shuo Wen. It
may have been used to exterminate
captives, and so, by extension this symbol
#} came to mean beheading by an execu-
tioner. The character may mean to
whirl or brandish ¥ a battle axe . (W.
128.A). See #fi (No. 812). When a day
1 jik* is divided the time is necessarily
short.

. pt*, To press upon, to ill use.
3 cho'Radical No. 162. (See No. 10).
E fu* Phonetic, abundance. (See No. 267). The

character & should be written f& pi'
When there is an abundance of men, a
crowd of people, they press one another,
and if the throng is great, the weaker
ones suffer from the pressure; a very
suggestive symbol for oppression.

tieh', To stumble, to fall.
Page-290
280

tsu?, Radical No. 157, the fout.  (See No. 484).

9& shift', Phonetic, to lose, to err, a fault. (See

No. 566). An error % of the foot &, a
mis-step, leads to a fall #.

S *L szit', Personal, selfish, secret.
* ho?, Radical No. 115, standing gram (See
No. 556).

I szu' Phonetic, private, selfish. (See No. 569).
Grain & was used for paying taxes and
the residue was personal L, property #i.
By extension, selfish.

o0 ﬁ yii', Passion, lust.
L hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart.

@‘ yii*, Phonetic, to long for, to desire. Thisis
made up of & ch'iao*, (See No. 135) the
upper lip, or the flesh R above the mouth,
O Kou'. In this phonetic the upper lip
seems to be regarded as the center of self-
restraint. The R ch'ien' indicates a
deficiency of restraint which allows desire
to gain. the mastery. When iy hsin' is
added it stands for passion or lust.

i m yér®, To screen, to hide from view, to shade.
F shor’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53),

ﬁ §§~ yén® Phonetic, a man making a long stride,
quickly ; by extension, to cover, remain.
The old writing, depicts a man making a
stride 2k and coyering ground the length of
the outstretched arms, a fathom. €8 shér?,
(See No. 784). When hand # shod’, is
added the hand covers or screens from
view.
Page-291
809'%

810 ﬁ%

811%

281

yir', Retired, in private life.
B £ Radical No. 170, a mound. (See No. 493).
% vin® Phonetic, careful, care, taking an interest
in, freedom from care; to enjoy the
results of the work T kung' of one’s
hands ™ <. The i hsin' indicates peace
of mind of one who has what he needs
and desires nothing else (W. 49 G). The
F fu* is a modern substitution, meaning

place, where formerly was written L a
hiding place.

man?®, To deceive, to conceal.

B mt, Radicai No. 109, the eye. (See No. 102).

ﬁ mazn® Phonetic, eguality. (See No. 306). When
both eyelids are closed (equally tight),
then one cannot see. An old meaning of
this character [{§ was to close the eyes. It
now means to hoodwink or to cause one
to have closed cyes to the real condition
of affairs.

ya*, To sprout, to bud, a germ, a shoot.

4 ts’ao’ Radical No. 140, grass or vegetation.
(See No. 22).

f ya’, Phonetic, a tooth. (See No. 97 ).
Dentition is an interesting process and
is watched by those interested in children.
The sprouting of seeds seemed to the
originators of this character to have a
striking resemblance to that process; it
occurs at the commencement of the new
life and the germs appear like teeth just
showing above the gums.
Page-292
282

812 m chien*, Gradually, by degrees.
JK, ¥ shu?, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).

’ﬁ char®, Phonetic, decapitate, to cut in two.
(See No. 803). Water cuts its way
through great rocks but ages are required

. in the process. Thisimpressed the scribes
and they adopted this process as a symbol

for gradually.
813 |
% ki, Grain, cereal.
% ﬂiho‘, Radical No. 115, standing grain. (See
No. 556).

% &3 ch'iao' k’o', Phonetic, a cover [J and vegeta—
tion &, W chik!. By extension, the husk
of grain, the shell of nuts"or of an egg.
The % shu!, to strike, (See No. 165) is
added, as frequently the husk requires
much harsh treatment, before it is re-
moved from the grain.

814
ﬁ I, A kernel (of grain).
mi#®, Radical No. 119, rice, small grains., (See
No. 47).

j I#*, Phonetic, to establish, to stand. (See No.
216). Grain in bulk cannot be piled up
unless it is in a bin; it is only a single
kernel # that can stand 3t alone without
support.

815
H chih', A branch of a tree.
* mu*, Radical No. 75, a tree, or wood. (See
No. 22).
i}ﬁ; % chih!, Phonetic, a bow, a branch, to advance
money ; the 65th Radical.
Page-293
8l6 i&

283

This phonetic originally was used for the
branch of a tree. The old writing shows
a hand with a branch as if stripping it
from a tree. The radical & is a modern
superfluous addition.

yin', Shady, to shelter.

) il ¢ a0’ Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22).
@ yin', Phonetic, shade, dark, Hades, female,

817 sX2

818

»

secret, cloudy. This symbol often refers
to the sky as being over cast ; now 4 chin,
it is cloudy % yin®. The F fu!, high, is
superfluous. When ¥ is added it indicates
that the shade comes from trees or some
thatched or artificial shelter.

liang*, Cool, fresh, cloudy.
¥,7R shui®, Radical No. 85, water. (8ee No. 79).

—==+ ching, Phonetic, the capital.” (See No. 98).
8

N

The capital is the most important place
in the Empire, and by extension it is most
desirable ; cool water is most desirable
and refreshing.

tu', A ferry, to ford, to cross a ferry.

v 7K skui’, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
g tu*, Phonetic, to measure, a degree ; capacity ;

to cross. This phonetic is made up of Jf§
shu*, contracted, (See No. 762), and X }
yu', the right hand which measures by
spans. (W. 24 M). The important
thing in fording a stream is to be sure
that the water K is not deeper than you
are able JE to ford, ¥ : or, to pass across
B water K.
Page-294
284

819 % % pao', To expose to the direct sunlight ; violent,
> B cruel.
H Ji#*, Radical No. 72, the sun. (Sce No. 12).
‘This character does not divide into radical
and phonetic. The old writing shows
definitely the idea which the character
was intended to convey; which was to
spread fi grain Xk out #f in the sun H to
dry. On account of the strength of sun-
light it has come to mean violent or eruel.

820
% po', A wave, a ripple.
'],7‘( shui®, Radical No. 85, water, (See No. 79).
& p'7, Phonetic, the skin. (See No. 224). The
waves and ripples are like a superficial
layer, Ji¢ p'?, of the water. (See No. 832).

e 7& lang’, Waves, profligate.
-‘/ ’7]( shui’, Radical No. 85, water. {See No. 79).
ﬁ liang’, Phonetic, good ; the original nature of
a thing. (See No. 445).
It is the nature B of water K to form
waves, the waves { seem impertinent,
rude, lawless, profligate .

828 % chén®, A pillow, to pillow ; to sleep.
A mu', Radical No. 75, wood, (of which pillows
are made in China) (See No. 22).
}:ﬁ yin® Phonetic, to go away, to withdraw; a
man JL who walks out of a space »» ™
(See W. 84 E). When wood %k mu' is
added it forms the character for pillow
and is thus explained : when the head is
pillowed (asleep) the man makes journeys
k vin® all over the world in his dreams.
Page-295
285

823 ﬁ ching’, Quiet, still ; clean.
ﬁ cb’ing"s,)Radical No. 174, pure, fresh. (See No.

@ chéng', Phonetic, to wrangle, to contest. (See
No. 315). This character ## was originally
used for thoroughly 4t blended colors &
cking', but it is now used for quiet or
still. The proper character for this was
% ching’, a cessation 3 I, of wrangling
4 chéng*; but in modern composition the
proper character is never used.

- % tan®, The gall, courage.
%‘E jou', Radical No. 130, meat. (See No. 133).

E chan' Phonetic, to tatk indiscreetly, oversee.
(See No. 797). The reason for this com-
bination of radical and phonetic may have
been :—if a man does indulge in indiscreet
statements, he not only needs to be a
man of muscle f jou', in order to stand
by these statements, but also a man of
courage or gall. The gall bladder is"con-
sidered to be the seat of courage.

825

H& ch'ieh*, Timorous, cowardly.
L,  hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).
* cl’ii!, Phonetic, to go. (See No. 67). If the

heart i is gone 3 there is no courage.
chii*, Afraid, to fear, to stand in awe of.

D, 0l' hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).
E g ch'ii* Phonetic, the timid look Hi of the bird 4&,
) needed to preserve life, looking to right
and to left. When a hawk has caught
Page-296
286

82']5‘&]'

il

829 E

his prey, he is on the alert while devouring
it, lest an enemy should attack him.
With the addition of 4 hAsin', heart, the
timidity of the bird is referred to the
emotions.

ying® To go out and receive, as a guest.
+ cho*Radical No. 162, to run and stop. (See
No. 10). . |
[']L, 13 ang® Phonetic, high, noble. A high dignitary
an official who holds the seal J{. Here
the seal J stands for the official. (See
No. 42). The other part of the phonetic
is T &, a man facing the opposite way
from the usual position. This man is
looking up to the official as if desiring to
attain to the rank of the latter. When
5_ cho' is added the idea of respectfully
going out to meet a guest or high digni-
tary is expressed. fff yang®, to look up,
has the same phonetic. (See W. 26 G).

lien?, Lead or tin ore; fien®, . chain.

4> chin', Radical No. 167, metal. (See No. 13).

% Iien®, Phonetic, to connect. (See No.;499).
This phonetic is suggestive of a chain as
it is used for things connected. * The chain
£k is made of many rings of metal £ con-
nected 3 like a string of carts, ¥, going
i— one after the other. s

Iii*, Many times, repeatedly. £
F shil', Radical No. 44, a person'in the recum-
bent posture. (See No. 449).
§ Iou* Phonetic, the part of the palace where
Page-297
!

Siﬂﬁ

287

women are confined. (See No. 392). The
idea of the phonetic here is not the same
as thatin # Jow®. This J& Iii® is a very old
character and it is easiest to explain it by
commencing with the P shih!, which is a
contraction of B wu', a room ; (See No.
337). % wu’, a negative; b, &, chung'
ni® are two characters used in the A %
pa' kua', which indicate an empty space;
and it indicates that in this room J&,
where the women were confined, there
was no # furniture, it was empty. The
character eventually came to mean a
space as opposed to a solid substance and
was used for the holes in the lattice win-
dows. From this the idea of “frequent’}
is derived, as in a window there are many
of these spaces.

ch’iin?, A flock, a herd, a multitude, all.
32 yang®, Radical No. 128, a sheep. (See No.

253).

g‘, ﬂ chiin', Phonetic, a princely man. It is com-

posed of F yin’, and O Kou’; a magist-
rate # who holds in his hand 3 authority
J and who utters [T his decrees or orders.
As sheep are orderly in their actions the
above phonetic was adopted with 2
yang?, sheep, for a flock of sheep. Itnow
means a flock of any kind.

yiiar®, A hem of a garment, a collar, a cause,

a connection, because.

3R szit, Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8). I’
Page-298
832 yi

*

T

5{ t'uan’ Phonetic, pigs with bristles. By exten-

sion, accessories, as bristles are accessory
to the pig. (W. 68 I). When silk % is
added it is used for the trimmings of a
garment. The bristles of the pig were
regarded as decoration and harmonized
with his general appearance.

p’o', A declivity, a mound, a hill.
:t t'u’, Radical No. 32, the earth. (See No. 13).
& p'?, Phonetic, skin. (See No. 224). The use

of this phenetic plus + ¢'u®, earth, for a
hill, and plus ¢ shuf’, for a wave (See No.
820) leads to the supposition that the
two characters were originated by the
same scribe. The wave is an elevation
on the surface of the water and a hill is
an elevation on the surface of the earth.
In skinning an animal the skin is prone
to lie in wrinkles ; this may have suggest-
ed its use as a phonetic n the two in-
stances.

ch’'uang™*, To push ahead, to bolt out orin;

rudely.

[ mén®, Radical No. 169, a door. (See No. 5).
E ma’®, Phonetic, a horse. (See No. 261). With-

out phonetic force, but it is suggestive of
dashing forward ; if once a horse & strikes
the side of a door [*] when going through,
he will ever afterward go through with a
rush [§.

t’ o, To throw at, to give over, to join.
Page-299
835;§

=W

837%

sh

ﬁsh

ch

7“ i,

289

ou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

" * Phonetic, the right hand making a quick
motion, to strike. (See No. 165). With
the addition of shou® # the hand, a good
character for to throw is formed and to
give over or to join must mean that one
throws himself on the mercy of another,
as the prodigal did in the far country.

'uan’, Cured, recovered.
, Radical No. 104, sickness. (See No. 593).

é ch’iian?®, Phonetic, entire, finished. (See No.

552).

This character is not found in the Shuo
Wen, but it is not difficult to see the idea
of its composition: when the disease 5~
ni* has run its course & ch'ian®, the
patient recovers.

yiian®, A fountain, the source.

7]( ¥ shuf’, Radical No. 85, water.
E rﬁ viian®, Phonetic, the origin, a spring. (See
,

No. 653). The modern character has {
shui®, water, added, owing to the present
writing of the phonetic having no sug-
gestion of water left in it. The original
character depicted the streams issuing
from under a ledge of rock.

fan', To interpret, to translate.

5z

i#, Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).

% fan', Phonetic, the tracks of a wild beast,

aborigines, discrimination. The @ is the
ball of the foot and the rest of the
Page-300
290

*H

839'%

KEZ

symbol is the imprints of the claws 3k
(cf. No. 801). Hunters became expert at
recognizing the footprints of the various
animals and could tell at a glance what
beast made them.

The character for “ to interpret or trans-
late” should be written % fan',but through
the carelessness of some scribe # fan' was
substituted. It was probably used first
for translating the writing of some tribe
or person who wrote different symbols .
from those in common use. Observe that
4 shér®, to judge or investigate, uses the
same phoretic : the judge in his courtroom
r» mien?, investigates % fan' the testimony
and pronounces sentence accordingly.

kuei', Women’s rooms, women, female, girl.
" mén, Radical No. 169, door. (See No. 5).
3 Kuei, Phonetic, a small stone scepter or baton,

anciently given to nobles as a sign of
rank. (See No. 161). The character [
kuei' scems to have been first used to
indicate the door of a feudal lord in dis-
tinction from the large door used by the E
wang?, the prince, and it was afterwards
used to designate the door of the women’s
apartment, and finally was used for
women 1n general.

jang®, To clamor, to cry out, to scold.
K’ ou®, Radical No. 30, the mouth.
hsiang' Phonetic ; to remove, to assist, to per-

fect. It is necessary to study the old
Page-301
.

291

writing. It is to take off one’s outer gar-
ment &K 7 and assist X in a common piece
of work T kung'. The W hsiian' indicates
that there is much discussion, perhaps
many orders given. X, seen only in oldest
writing, was changed into & chi’ and
indicated disorder or confusion. (W. 16
I. and 72 H.) With the addition of O
K ou®, mouth, to this already boisterous
phonetic we have a strong character for
clamor. The modern writing gives but
little clue to the original composition.

nien®, To expel, to drive out. .
4" P shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

§ g nien®, Phonetic, the Emperor’s chariot. When

IR
iR 3

the Emperor went on the street the
ordinary traffic was suspended and the
streets must be vacated. The addition of
hand ¥ shou® to this phonetic may have
formed the character adopted for the
clearing of the thoroughfare for the pas-
sage of the Emperor’s chariot. It was
drawn by two men %. (W. 60 M).

yént, To dislike, to loathe.
han® Radical No. 27, a projecting cliff.
yén* Phonetic, to be satiated, # kan', with

dog R ch'iian’, meat A jou'.

The & i* and H kan' of the old forms have
been changed to H in the modern char-
acter. Satiety seems to have been the
aim in the ancient feast; it is indicated
by & #, belching. By extension, the I
Page-302
yen' means disgust, aversion. |~ han* re-
presents the retreat from the place of
842 feasting. (W. 65 G).

e X X
s , X el'i, To reject, to discard.
7|§ mu, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).

This character does not exhibit radical
and phonetic. The seal writing represents
a newborn child in a scoop and two hands
in the act of throwing it away. (W. 94
G.) This indicates that infanticide has
long been practiced in this country.

kuai®, A staff, a crutch.
" F F short, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No: 53).
ﬁ ling*, Phonetic, separate, extra. (See No. 474).
As a staff is something used by man in
walking and is not a part of himself, this
phonetic aids in explaining the character
but is without phonetic force.

w E ch’én®, Dust, the world.
+ ¢u*, Radical No. 33, earth. (See No. 13).

Eﬁ' Iu*, Phonetic, a deer, an antelope, a gazelle.
On the upper part are the horns, below
are the feet and the body is in the middle.
The original writing of & cA’én* was not
always the same. # indicated the dust
which a herd of deer or elk caused to rise
when they ran. There is now but one f§
deer.

845, ﬁ% . ) .

) to*®, To stamp, to knock off (from the feet).
J& tsu?, Radical No. 157, the foot. (See No. 484).
% to’, Phonetic, bushes with branches hanging

' with flowers. ' (See No. 581). When foot
Page-303
* ith

293

is added to this phonetic, there is the idea
of something hanging or adhering to it,
which can be removed by a_stamp of the
foot. ‘

vu’, Oil.

¥.,7K shui’, Radical No. 85, water. (Sce No. 79).

M?ﬂ

 

R R

i3} vu', Phonetic, from, origin. (See No. 732).

This was originally the name of a river
and it was adopted as the character for
oil. There is no etymological ground for
this use.

fu*, A wife, a married woman. ‘
t ni’, Radical No. 38, a woman. (See No. 16).
% chou’® Phonetic, a dusting cloth attached to a

handle. Invented in the 21st century B.
C. When % ni’, a woman, is added it is
used as the character for a married
woman or wife, the one who handles the
broom-stick. (W. 44: K).

wer*, To dread, to respect, to be in awe of.
m t’ien’, Radical No. 102, field. (See No. 212).

This character cammot be divided into
radical and phonetic. Originally the H
t'ien’ field, was M & fir', a demon’s head,
and & chao’, claw, and finally ) A jén?,
a man, a frightened man, was added as a
demon’s head and a tiger’s claws are
most fear-inspiring objects to man. This
character has undergone so great a change
in modern writing that the etymology is
entirely lost.
Page-304
294

849 % hut, To protect, to defend.
vén’, Radical No. 149, a word. (See No. 10).
huo* Phonetic, to hold a bird # in the hand &
to protect it. This is a bird of the falcon
or hawk tribe, carried on the arm .
According to #: & # 3% Kuei* Shih* Shuo*
Weén?, the bird is eminently able to foresee
good fortune or calamity, and there is an
intimation that they were kept and pro-
tected in order to secure good fortune.
With the addition of word, § yér’, the
character stands for protection or, to
defend.

il

850 ﬁﬁ yu’, To float, to rove, to travel.
¥, 7K shu, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
#? yu® Phonetic, the motion of the arms of a
swimmer ; fluttering of a flag. The pho—
netic is a contraction of J yu’, a swimmer.
The #* yén' (See No. 698) a fluttering
motion, here means the overhand swim-
ming strokes. The F§ tzi®, a child,
indicates that the legs of the swimmer are
hidden by the water and thus invisible as
those of a child wrapped in long clothing.
The water radical ¥ shuf, is a recent
addition. By extension this character is
used for the verh, to travel.

e g 1%, Stalks standing so close together that they
require to be transplanted, to move.
K Bo*, Radical No. 115, standing grain. (See
No. 556).
25 to', Phonetic, many. (See No. 184). This
phonetic assists in explaining the meaning
Page-305
852 .l,g

85315

3541;*5

295

of the character, but has no value as a
phonetic,. When plants are crowded %
and their growth is thus stunted, the
farmer often transplants # and so allows
room for development.

ch'ia®, Timely.

L, 1]\ hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).
. ho’, Phonetic, joining, union, harmony. (See

0

No. 103). That which occurs just at the
right time or just when it is wanted, i
hsin', is called timely.

ch'iac®, Skillful, lucky.

I kung', Radical No. 48, work, workman, time

of work. (See No. 89).

'5 ch'iao® Phonetic, difficulty in breathing, air

which has met with an obstruction. (See
No. 258). This is a phonetic which in—
dicates curves and waves of air; these
curves and twists plus T kung', a repre-
sentation of the square, when brought
together, are used for skilful, as a work-
man who can combine curves and angles
in his work must be skilful.

p’ar®, To arrange.
F ¥ show, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No.53).

3'3 fe', Phonetic, a primitive with two sides

opposite to each other. (See No. 276).
The objects are placed in a certain position
with reference to each other and with the
addition of hand this forms the character
to arrange.
Page-306
296

“E

shih', To swear, an oath.
yén’, Radical No. 149, word. (See No. 10).

ﬁ ;ﬁ $ﬁ shé*, Phonetic, to break, to cut in two. Inthe

856%

857

oldest writing this phonetic represents an
ax which has cut a branch in two. In
ancient times when one desired to affirm
a statement as true, he took an ax and
cut a branch in two, the idea being that
he expected such a retribution if his state-
ment was not true. With the addition of
S yér®, word, this character is used for
an oath.

pai', To break apart with the hand (as bread).
F shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
B¥ ﬁ pi*p’f*, Phonetic, a prince, a man who pro-

nounces [ the sentence ° on criminals 3
bsin' (See No. 274).

The ™ chiek?, seal, has been changed to P
shil!, in the modern writing. As the
sentence was generally death, the char-
acter also means to kill by cutting asunder.
‘When hand is added it means to break
open with the hand; a case where the
addition of a radical very materially
reduces the original severity of the phon-
etic.

an', The bank, the shore.
lh, W shan', Radical No. 46, a mountain, a pictorial

representation in the old writing.

:F kan', Phonetic, arms. (See No. 110). Here

the idea is that arms F kan', are used for
defense. The radical Wl shan', a mountain,
Page-307
858

8591%

!

861%

297

should also include |~ han', a projecting
cliff, as' mountains and the cliffs are the
guardians against the encroachment of
the sea.

yao’, To shake, to sway to and fro.
F F shou’, Radical, No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
% @ yao® Phonetic, an earthen vessel for cooking

or keeping meat. (W.130 C). There is
no explanation of why this phonetic is
used with the radical # hand, shou’, for
the verb to move, and consequently it
must be regarded as a simple phonetic.

huang', Agitated, apprehensive, to scare ; very.
. hsint, Radical No. 61, the heart. (Sce No. 18).
}'ﬁ huang', Phonetic, barren, wild, reckless. (See

No. 639). This is a good phonectic and
when heart f Asin!, is added the condition
of the barren and worthless land is trans-
ferred to the heart. It suggests the idea
of being ““scared out of one’s wits.”

v, Silly, stupid.
i» hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).
'% 1% yi* Phonetic, a monkey. In the old writing

the head resembles that of a demon. (See
No. 447). It has a prehensile tail (W.
23 E). For some reason a monkey is
regarded as stupid, thus when heart is
added the character indicates a monkey’s
heart—stupid.

chit', To grasp, to restrain.
$ shou®; Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
Page-308
298

ﬁ] chii*, Phonetic, a sentence; (See No. 80) to
admonish or warn, and with the addition
of # shou’, the hand, to lay hold on one,
to prevent his going. 47 chii* is not origi-
nally from *J pao', as stated under the
80th character, but from 1, & chid, a
primitive representing a creeping plant
twining over and circling round other
things. That Y chiz* is here written
precisely like ] pao!, to wrap, is mislead—
ing. Because the tendril | chiu' and the
placenta ¢ pao' both have the idea of to
wrap, or contain, the modern forms are
often identical and they are used inter-
changeably.

. # show®, To keep, to guard.

»*» mien® Radical No. 40, a house.

TJ‘ ts’un’, Phonetic, an inch, a measure, a hand.
(See No. 69). It is without phonetic
value but it explains the use of the char-

_acter. The " mier’is an official’s resid-
ence and here the law ~F ts'un’, is kept
and used in the administration of the
office.  Another explanation is that
mien® is a house on the frontier where
soldiers are stationed to protect the
frontier from encroachment.

7%, To bequeath, to lose, to give.
Li cho* Radical No. 162, to run and stop. (See
No. 10).
E kuet*, Phonetic, honorable. This is from
Kuei', a basket, (See No. 693) and B pef,

863f xks.
R
Page-309
"

299

precious, a basketful # of precious things,
H, valuable. This character has under-
gone many changes and the present
writing does not indicate the original
meaning. Kang Hsi gives three old
writings which are obsolete. The best
way to remember the character is to
regard the valuables % kuei* as moving
3, changing hands, either as a present or
bequeathed 3.

ch'iin’, The lips.
ﬂ ., % jou*, Radical No. 130, meat, flesh.
E’ Fﬁ ch’én’, Phonetic, time, 7 to 9 a.m. (See No.

122) £ % 3 % Ch’ang? Chien' Shuo' Weén®
gives the following explanation:—Ig, f&
ch'én® is from Z ? 1', germination (it
represents the germ striving to get thru
the ground); and U & hua‘, an inverted
man, change; (See No. 488 ; the seed is
being changed into a plant,) and = old
writing of E shang’, up; (the plant is
growing up out of the ground); and ™
han* indicating that at first the sprout is
covered with the earth. As this is the
season when vegetation commences to
grow it is a most important time for
farmers. Why this' was selected as the
phonetic for lips is not apparent, unless
the cotyledons of plants such as beans
reminded the scribes of the lips.

wang®, Crooked ; wrong, a grievance.
AR mut, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).
Page-310
300

=

867 @

= F

S

 

Ex

wang’ Phonetic, vegetation which grows here

and there without any order. (See No.
350). With the addition of tree K mu*
this irregular growth is transferred to the
tree and this is a symbol of a crooked,
wrong or unuatural growth, a tree so
contorted that it is useless for building
purposes.

chieh', To prohibit, to caution ; a precept.
5 ¥én’, Radical No. 149, a word.  (See No. 10).

K ‘l'_"ff chieh', Phonetic, to warn, to caution. This

phonetic is made up of two hands ¥} and
a halberd %. It implies an ocular warn-
ing. When § yén® is added it implies a
verbal warning. (W. 47 E).

fei', Ruined, a house in ruins, useless; to

abandon.

}" yén® Radical No. 53, a covering, a shelter, a

house.

ﬁ 1a', Phonetic, to shoot an arrow, to send forth.

(See No. 214). Some explain this phon-
etic as ¥ po', to separate the feet, to place
the feet apart as one does when shooting
an arrow % from a bow 5. When shoot-
ing the arrow is sent away, is lost; this
is the idea stressed in this combination ;
and when J~ yén’, a house, is added it
indicates an abandoned house ; one which
owing to its location or for other reasons
cammot be used.

chieh', To borrow, to avail oneself of; by

means of.
Page-311
301

- ts'ao’, Radical No. 140, grass or vegetation.
- (See No. 22).

ﬁ,#ﬁf chi* Phonetic, a field plowed by the Emperor,

appanage, to borrow. This is made up

of %, 3k le’, a harrow (See No. 601) and

8, # hst', dried meat old, ancient. (See

No. 222). The crops from the Imperial

field were used in sacrifices. This phon-

etic is made up of the products of the field,

grain, and the results of the chase, dried

meat; in a word, the articles used as

food. By planting and hunting one could

supply himself with these articles and the

original meaning was, ‘“‘to avail oneself

of,” and this meaning was extended to

“borrow.” It is now written with the

grass radical when used in this sense.

369 ﬁ hui*, Weeds growing among grain, dirty, un-
clean.
R ho?, Radical No. 115, standing grain. (See
No. 556).

suf’, Phonetic, a harvest, a year. (See No.
197). As Jupiter’s phases indicated whe-
ther or not war was to be waged, it thus
decided whether the crops R ho® were
properly cared for; when war was being
carried on the weeds were not removed
and thus the fields were dirty, as the men
were called away from their agricultural
pursuits. -

270
Hj: tu*, The belly.
Elzfj jou*, Radical No. 180, meat, flesh. (See No.

133).
Page-312
802

Sﬂﬁ

872

873&,?.

i t'u’, Phonetic, earth. (See No. 13). This

character is not found in the Shuo Wen
and hence is probably a modern inven-
tion. The  t'u*is a simple phonetic.

ko, Tllicit, careless, if.
H ts'ac?, Radical No. 140, grass.  (See No. 22).
43] kou', Phonetic; curved, crooked, a hook; to

entice ; to cross out from a list. This is
composed of 4§ , 8 chiu', a creeping vine,
(See No. 861), and O K’ou®, mouth. This
phonetic is often written %) kou'. Because
a creeping vine extends its growth in any
direction, it is regarded as being selfish,
careless, and by extension illicit.

t'ou’, To steal, to pilfer, secretly, stealthily.
jén?, Radical No. 9, a man.
fg‘, ﬁ{ yi® Phonetic, a small boat. (See No. 795).

The original writing of this character f&
was & t'ou’, and it has to be looked up
still in the Shuo Wen under % ni*, woman,
where it says the vulgar writing is f&
t’ou'. Itis evidence that the incongruity
of using % ni®, when in the courts and
jails ninety-nine out of a hundred thieves
are men, was recognized and consequently
the % ni® was replaced by 1 jér?, a
person of either sex. Why & was used as

.phonetic is not apparent; perhaps boat-

women were notorious for their thieving
propensities.

tu', Jealous, envious.
Page-313
874 ﬁ

875%

876 %

308

# ni’, Radical No. 388, a woman, a girl. (See

No. 16).

JB ha', Phonetic, a single door. (See No. 480).

This is another instance where women
are maligned by the scribes as if jealousy
were confined to the female portion of the
human race. The Shuo Wen says that 47
tu is the jealousy of women and & chi*
the jealousy of men. If this is correct
why is & ni® used in both characters?
The present character represents a woman
back of a B door giving vent to her
jealousy where she is not seen by others.

cha', Sediment, dregs.
‘/,Zk shui®’, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
3§ ch'a?, Phonetic, a proper name. (See No. 397).

It was at one time used as the character
for a railing and also for the foundation
of a pillar, but none of these meanings
aid in the explanation of the present
combination, therefore it has to be put
in the class of simple phonetics.

ching’, A region, a place ; state or condition.
i #'u’, Radical No. 82, earth. (See No. 13).
—%“ ching!, Phonetic, the end, limits; boundaries

where the pronunciations & yin', of men
JL differ ; only, nothing but. With the
addition of F #«, earth, the stress is
removed from the boundaries, to the
region in which the language is the same.

ch'i, Painful, distressing ; orderly, well-done.
Page-314
304

7,; mu', Radical No. 75, wood, tree. (See No. 22).
% ”‘%K ch’u’, Phonetic, a place planted with trees.

! This phonetic contains the radical, the
upper part is a grove or forest ¥k lin”.
The lower part is & shu’, the foot in
motion. (W. 112 C, 119 N). Itis a
difficult thing to walk through a thicket.
The idea of orderly may have been sug-
gested by the regular order of the trees
which were planted in the grove.

¥ ‘l% wu', To awaken, to discern ; to recover.
T, i hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No. 18).
E wa® Phonetic, I, my. It is composed of #
wa® five (See No. 30), and O Kou’® the
mouth, & wa'is a very lofty appellation
for I, myself, as it represents the creation
of all things %, by the word of my mouth
[, but man has ever been prone to elevate
himself and with the addition of | hsin!,
heart, consciousness, we have the symbol
for, to discern.

p'iao', To float, to drift.
JK, ¥ shai®, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
= piac, Phonetic, a signalr a ticket. (See No.
255). The old writing represents smoke
floating in the air as a signal; when ¢
shui’, water, is added, the floating is
transferred from the air to the water.

 

879 5‘& . g
» _ ché, To cover, to hide, to screen, to intercept.
3, 5& cho* Radical No. 162, to run and stop (See
No. 10). !

. },ﬁ shu* Phonetic, all (See No.,762). If a person
Page-315
880%

881 Tg

T

305

left or went away from, i_ cho', the light
of the hearth H§ he was not seen, as
this was all the light in the house at
night.

ts’ar’, Variegated, gay, ornamented with

diverse colors.

é shan' Radical No. 59, to adorn with feathers

or colored hair. It is intended to repre-
sent feathers or long hair.

ot 0 .
%, M ts'al’, Phonetic, to pluck with the fingers =

fruit or flowers from a tree /& ; to choose.
(W. 49 B). With the addition of = shan',
to adorn with feathers or long hair, we
have flowers and long hair or feathers;
thus the character contains all the natural
articles for ornamentation.

tang®, To obstruct, to withstand.
¥ T shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

, Phonetic, to be equal to. (See No.478).
A hand # shou®, must be equal to % the
requirements before it can obstruct or
withstand #%.

yi*, That which decides who is right in a

quarrel ; a prison, a jail.

cK'iian® Radical No. 94, a dog, a pictorial

representation.

The Shuo Wen explains this character as
being two dogs § K ch'izan®. The phonetic
is § yén® but though it has no phonetic
force, it assists in explaining the mecaning.
The two dogs personate two criminals
who are mutually incriminating each
Page-316
306

883%

=

3

= B A

other § yér’, in order to secure a lighter
sentence. This is not a pleasant pastime
and is an apt symbol for Hades or prison.

chia', To marry a husband.

j(' nii*, Radical No. 38, a woman. (Sece No. 16).

% chia', Phonetic, a home, a family. (See No.
221). The bride ieaves the parental roof
and a new home % chia', is started.
This combination of radical and phonetic
forms a good character for the above
meaning.

j)’ieh‘, To throw away, to give up.

shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

pi*, Phonetic, mean, poor, ruined. (See No.
211). With the hand # shoi’, added,
which indicates the action of discarding
or throwing away worn out clothing #
we have a very good symbol for the
above meaning .

tien*, A grand hall, a palace.

ﬁ shu' Radical No. 79, the right hand making a
jerky motion. (See No. 165).

E:';. #’un® The phonetic is not now used as a char-
acter ; the buttocks. The explanation
given in Chu Shih % K Shuo Wén is as
follows: HMBNBHEEUERZ “A
thief is bound and spanked in the hall.”
The second B is here used for & tien'. A
place for the administration of punishment
seems to have originally been the chief
use of the B tien*, but as their civilization
Page-317
887%

888

|

307

advanced it was used for large gatherings
of any kind. (W. 22 D).

1%, A fence, to inclose.
Y chu?, Radical No. 118, bamboo. (See No. 7).
", Phonetic, to part, to separate. (See No.

351).

To separate off, § 1%, a plot of land with
a bamboo # chu® fence is the explanation
of this character.

pa’, A bamboo hedge; a species of bamboo

with spines.

Y chut, Radical No. 118, bamboo (See No. 7).
[ pa', Phonetic, a kind of boa (See No. 53).

It may be that a serpent & was selected
for the phonetic because it, like a hedge,
has length without much width; and 4
chu®, bamboo, is a common material for a
hedge, or a fence.

p'u?, The vine.
H I} ¢s'a0, Radical No. 140, grass or vegetation.

(See No. 22).

ﬂ‘ m p’u’, Phonetic, to fall prostrate; to crawl, as

a child. The 7] pao' here takes the place
of 4, 8 chiu' of the original writing. The
reason for this change is that “] pao' is
one of the 214 radicals and Y chiu® is not.
Thus the meaning was a vine which
spreads W, fu’. (See No. 416).

t'ao®, The grape.
'"', 9«[! ts’ac®, Radical No. 140, vegetation. (See No.

22).
Page-318
808

890 E

891 w

%’ @\ t'ao’, Phonetic, a furnace for pottery. This

seems to be a simple phonetic. It is a
pictorial representation of a kiln “J
with porcelain ware ff inside. (W. 54
D). # is a recent character, coined
about 100 B.C. An emperor of the Han
Dynasty in 138 B.C. sent #% # Chang'

‘Ch’ien!, to the region of the Caspian Sea

on a mission and this man brought back
grapes, alfalfa and large horses. He saw
that grapes were good for men and alfalfa
was good for animals. This man also
established a trade route to that part of
the world. (See Giles’ Biographical Dic-
tionary, under Chang' Ch’ien, ?&ﬁ. and
K’ang Hsi's Dictionary under ﬁ t'ao’.)

ya', To press down, to repress.
:I: t'v®, Radical No. 32, the earth.
,ﬁ yén*, Phonetic, to dislike, to loathe, to be

satiated. (See No. 841). This phonetic
represents a man whose stomach is dis-
tended and uncomfortable. The addition
of 4: ¢’u’ carth, may imply that a hole is
to be filled with earth &+ and solidly
packed & as an over-distended stomach
is packed with food.

pien', A whip.
Wi 1& Radical No. 177, to skin. (See No. 163).
ﬁ pien*, Phonetic, convenient, ready. (See No-

492). The #ff was originally an instru-
ment of ‘torture, but it is now used as a
whip for animals. A convenient {£ piece
Page-319
592@

g

309

of leather # may stimulate, in''some,
recollections of a slipper sole.

nin®, You. (A polite term). This is an un-

authorized character.

i hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart.

4R ni’, Phonetic, you. (See No. 8). The addition
of heart > hsin', is intended as a mark of
respect. Some think that the origin of #&
nin®, was from { % ns® lao® which in the
spoken language was contracted to nin’
and this character was coined for the new
sound.

t'ang®, A bath tub.
L min®, Radical No. 108, a dish or vessel.
% t’ang', Phonetic, hot water, broth, Il min® and
% t'ang', form a good character for the
above ; also read tang*.

hsing?, Form, figure, shape.
ﬁ shan' Radical No. 59, feathers, long hair. (See
No. 415).

ﬁ’ﬁ chien* Phonetic, two shields of equal height.

(Sce No. 235). Shields with decorations
in various designs were common. An
article if not decorated is spoken of as
lacking in appearance or shape.

lia®, Two, a couple. (An unauthorized char-
acter).

A, /f jér?, Radical No. 9, a man.

! Eﬁ liang®, Phonetic, two, a pair, an ounce. (See
No. 35).
It is probable that this character was
originally used for two men, but it is now
used for two of anything.
Page-320
310

896 %

897 %

S%ﬁ‘,}ﬁ

899%

ching’, Bright sunlight ; a view ; appearance ;

circumstances.

H Jit*, Radical No. 72, the sun. (See No. 12).
_E': ching', Phonetic, the capital. (See No. 98).

When the sun, B jik', is high, 3 ching'
then one can get a view of the landscape
or can learn the appearance of the sur-
roundings.

wu', To use great effort and bend the mind to

a subject, to strive after ; business, duty,
must.

I 1, Radical, No. 19, strength. (See No. 212).
ﬁ wu* Phonetic, to display one’s skill in wielding,

X p'd', arms, F mao’ (a three pronged
halberd). The J7 I, strength, is a modern
addition.

chieh®, Boundaries which separate men, one

alone; an assistant, one who waits on, to
assist ; petty.

A jén*, Radical No. 9, a man.
{J\ pa', Phonetic, eight. (See No. 82). It has no

phonetic power, but in the seal writing it
helps to explain the meaning of the
character. Man, A jén? is in the center
and the /A pa', separates him from others.
The meaning of to assist has been added
without logical sanction.

shao*, To connect, to join, to tie together, to

hand down as a trade.

3% szit', Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).
chao*, Phonetic, to summon, to call. (See No.

722). The original meaning seems to
Page-321
311

have been a father summoning, & chao’,
his son and requesting him to continue, 5
szu', the family trade or profession.

o @, *"3 chi*, Utmost, very.

AR mu', Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).

@"1 chi* Phonetic, haste, urgent, a struggle for life.
A man who watches for the favorable
opportunity of heaven—and the advan-
tages of earth.—A man is seen in the seal
writing, between heaven and earth — erh!
(the radical) ; he is striving with voice 1,
and hand, %, to gain his end. (W. 2 D).
With the addition of &K mu', a tree, the
character stands for extreme, the very
top. The tree, in its position between
heaven and earth, attains to a much
higher altitude than does man.

o ﬂj} p’an’, To look at, to hope for.
E mu', Radical No. 109, the eye. (Sec No. 102).
ﬁ fén', Phoretic, to divide. (See No. 181).
When one hopes I} for something the eye
H, mu', is prone to spend a portion 7+ fén',
of its time looking for it.

902
& ko', The thighs, the haunches, the rump; a
division, share ; a band, a gang; a strand
of a rope.

P, B jou', Radical No. 130, meat. (See No. 133).
&‘ shu' Phonetic, a long pole projecting before a
war-chariot, a spear, to kill. (Sce No.
165). The meaning in Jf seems to be
taken from the first definition given, the
thighs are an extension of the body. The
Page-322
312

903%

904 %

505%

idea of a strand or a part or share scems
to come from an ancient usage of the
word ; the Shuo Wen says that the ¥ shu'
is here used for ¥k shu', different, to dis-
tinguish between. The fibers of a rope are
divided into strands, and a business con-
cern is made up of a certain number of
shares.

kung’, A mine.
B shil?, Radical No. 112, stone. (See No. 42).

E kua;

1g’, Phonetic, broad. (See No. 696). The
Shuo Wen says that this should be written
. Here ¥, huang®, (See No. 207), is
used for %, ¢'u’, yellow earth, with A,
shil?, metal-bearing stone. Another writ-
ing is 8.

hsit, A thread, a clue, to succeed to.

f& szit’,

, Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).

% ‘%q ché, Phonetic, this, that, it. This character

was invented to represent a connection
between what has already been said and
what is to follow. The seal writing
indicates that it reaches in two directions,
two crossed branches, and beneath. is B
tzii*, contracted, the starting point for
what follows. Thus the composition of
the character #% indicates the self fj reach—
ing in all directions in order to find a clue
or trace #% of the thing desired.

chien®, A bamboo slip, to abridge, rude.
/ﬁ chi, Radical No. 118, bamboo. (See No. 7).
Eﬂ chient!, Phonetic, between, among. (See No.
Page-323
Wsﬁ

3

17,

4

e
=

313

183). Strips were made of the part of
the bamboo #r between Bl chien’, the
joints, and on these slips directions or
descriptions were written ; if the deserip-
tion was lengthy the slips were bound up
in book form, but when the description
was kept within the limits of one slip of
bamboo it was regarded as abridged and
eventually the above character took on
that meaning.

ya*, The house or office of an official; a

tribunal.

N\ hsing’, hang’, Radical No. 144, to walk, to

act ; read hang® a row, motion. (See No.
161).

wu? Phonetic, I, my. (See No. 877). The

original phonetic was 3F, ya% a tooth,
something to be dreaded ; it represents
the official. The radical 17 hang®, a row,
in order, represents the underlings who
are standing at their places in a row on
cither side of the official. It is difficult
to explain how the writing was changed

from f& to 1.

ching®, The end, finally, only.

j Ii*, Radical No. 117, to stand. (See No. 216).

By using 3 Y, as the radical the
etymology has hbeen destroyed. This
character is very similar to # chang', a
chapter. (See No. 87) & yin', sound,
should be the radical, and below this is
man, JL, % ching (See No. 875). Another
explanation is, & indicates that this man
Page-324
314

908 gﬁ

909 m

910 E

JL was singing, he sent forth tones, &
and we thought only of the melody &;
when the song is completed % there is a
sense of finality.

ts'ar®, To select, to pluck.
¥ P shor, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
R ts’ar’, Phonetic, to gather, to pluck. (See No.

281). The addition of the ¥, ¢'7* shou’,
contributes nothing.

hsiang’, The nape of the neck; a sort; item,

sum, income.

E yeh', Radical No. 181, the head, a page of a

book. (See No. 105).

I kung', Phonetic, labor. (See No. 89). Owing

to the head, neck and back forming a
notch resembling one side of the radical
kung', T, this symbol was selected as the
phonetic for the above character. Another
reason given for the selection is that the
nape of the neck is where burdens are
carried, viz., where work, X, kung!, is
done. (W. 82 A).

ching’, A ford, a ferry, a narrows, a mart

where boats stop.

¥.7K shui", Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
$ yi* Phonetic, a stylus. (See No. 7). This

phonetic was formerly F chin!, a stylus
F yi* making marks 2. It was con—
tracted to F¢ yu'. There seems to be
much evidence to the effect that originally
this character was written i, a place
where a boat was sure to be found for
Page-325
911 %

912 %

913 %

914 %g

o Tjll

315

crossing a river. This being a clumsy
character it was contracted until it as-
sumed its present form.

t’o, To charge with, to entrust.
vén’, Radical No. 149, a word. (See No. 10).
t'o0" Phonetic, to depend on, to engage a sub-

stitute. (See No. 624). By a word or
command § the responsibility is changed &
2’0" from one person to another.

vu?, To roam, to wander, to stroll, to travel.
cho* Radical No. 162, to run and stop. (See

No. 10).

T yu® Phonetic, the motion of the arms ot a

swimmer. (See No. 850). The character
i# is often used for No. 850 k. The 5_
cho', indicates movement, and for moving
from place to place on land, is more
logical than is I yu®

chi', A machine, a loom, to reveal, a spring.
7'{ mu', Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).
)& chi*®, Phonetic, few, nearly. (See No. 34),

This phonetic plus wood is used for
machine. The first machines probably
were looms and these were constructed of
wood. A few # pieces of wood A&, which
developed movement is a good symbol for
a machine t#%.

ch'f%, A utensil, an instrument.

sian® Radical No. 94, a dog, a pictorial
representation.

BB ck’i' Phonetic, many mouths, clamor. Dishes
Page-326
316

915 ‘H‘ﬁ

916 ﬁ

are spoken of as having mouths, thus
each mouth represents a dish. The dog
was added as he was kept to clean up the
dishes after a meal. Another explanation
is, the dog is watchful and carefal of
articles he is responsible for; thus here
the dog implies that utensils must be
cared for. There is an old writing %
ck'#*, which has the radical % fou®, por-
celain, instead of R, ch'iian’, which is
more logical, but owing to its being
obsolete it does not help in remembering
the construction of the character.

chao', To illuminate, acco;ding to.
N j( huo®, Radical No. 86, fire. (See No. 482).
BB chao', Phonetic, bright, to show forth. This

phonetic is composed of the sun H, jih',
and # chao', to call or summon. (See
No. 722). The sun A is that which calls
% us in the morning owing to its bright-
ness . When K hud’, fire, is added, the
character stands for, to illuminate #&.

ching', Unmixed, fine, essence, semen, vigor.
)k m#®, Radical No. 119, rice (See No. 47).
;l'.is ch'ing', Phonetic, color of nature, green, blue,

black. (See No. 63). As rice grows in
water the weeds or other grain which are
found in wheat and oats cannot flourish
in a paddy field ; therefore rice is seldom
mixed with other grain, and consequently
it is here used as a symbol of pure or
unadulterated. #% ch'ing' is also a symbol
Page-327
917 %

918% .

919 ﬁ

“H

317

of purity and these two radicals when
combined form the character for unmixed
or fine.

lien?, To connect, to combine.

E ér’, Radical No. 128, the ear. (See No. 71).

ﬁﬁ kuan' Phonetic, to run threads through the
web. (See No. 95). With the addition
of X ér®, ear, one is inclined to believe,
that this character was first used for the
collecting of evidence, combining the state~
ments of different individuals.

slzuzmg Cheerful, quick, crisp.

)g rao’ Radical No. 89, to mix, to lay crosswise.

j( ta', Phonetic, large. (See No. 54),—without
phonetic force. The two & yao® represent
the lattice work of a window and as this
is large, X, ta', enough to admit light
and air the occupants of the room are not
gloomy and despondent. Or, a man X
acting X with both arms. (W. 39 0).

huot, To catch, to obtain.

chian® Radical No. 94, a dog. Pictorial re-

presentation.

E. § huo Phonetic, to seize with the hand X, as an
owl 4£ chui* seizes its prey. With R ch'ian:
added the character was probably first
used for getting game in the chase with
the help of a hound. It is now used for,
getting or obtaining, in general. (W 103 C).

tsu!, To rent; or tax in kind from fields, to
lease ; taxes.
Page-328
318

921@

g

I ko',
H tsw

“
ku',

j veh'

J& Kt

Radical No. 115, standing grain. (See
No. 556). :
Phonetic, a stand used in sacrifice (tsu’,
archaic pronunciation, now read ch’ieh’
and chi'). In & % & % is the following
statement: # tsu' was originally the
land tax M |, t'ier’ fu'. It was originally
written H tsu'. Land rent was spoken
of as the portion of grain &, ho® used
as an offering in the ancestral temple.
The character # is now used for any rent
or tax.

To look after, to regard, to consider.

, Radical No. 181, the head, the page of a

book. (See No. 105).

Phonetic, to hire, to engage. (See No.
361). With H yeh!, head, added the idea
of, to look after or consider, is expressed.
If a person heeded i the migration of
these birds JE as explained under No. 361,
he took the warning to heart H yeh?, and
acted on it.

hsiang , Sound, noise, reverberation.

& i

, Radical No. 180, a sound. (See No. 39).

i hsia.

ng*, Phonetic, village, country, rastic.
(Sce No. 466). The Chinese divide sound
in to two kinds, $ hsiang®, a nonmusical
sound, and F yin', a musical sound.
When a sound comes to the ear it is ¥
shéng'. The etymology set forth in & %
& % is that #§ hsiang' is the abode of
people and when & yin'is added it stands
for the home of sound or its origin. When
Page-329
S

"

* H

319

one hears a sound he may go in that
direction and may find it was a clock
striking, and he will say & & 7 %2,

chiiel?, To decide ; to-pass sentence ; certainly.
{ ping', Radical No. 15, ice. (See No. 516).
5{ chiiel®, Phonetic, to cut off, to decide, to settle,
certainly.  This phonetic is described
under No. 109, an additional meaning
seems reasonable according to B K # %,
to split with a wedge. The act of split-
ting a log is suddenly accomplished and
once done there is no way of uniting it
again. With ice as the radical it suggests
a familiar winter sight, cracks or fissures
in thick ice. With water which is also
used as the radical, it indicates a break in
a river bank, a condition once established,
there was no question as to its existence.

chang?, The palm of the hand, to control.
ZF show?, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
f"'i sbaqg‘, Phonetic, a roof of a house. (See No.
52). When the hand is placed palm
downwards and fingers act as pillars, the
palm assumes the shape of a roof.

kuet', A case with drawers, a chest, a trea-
sury.
* mu', Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).
E kuer* k'iiei!, Phonetic, a case with drawers.
Read K'wuei*, wearied. This phonetic is
made up of [, fang', a wooden trough,
a log hollowed out, by extension, a chest,
a trunk, (W. 51 A), and %, kuer*, expen-
Page-330
320

926 ﬁ’@i

sive, honorable. (See No. 863). This
phonetic itself sets forth the meaning :—
something valuable is placed in a chest or
case, and the addition of &, mu, is super—
fluous.

ch'i, W®* A relative, grieved.

j’é ;% ko', Radical No. 62, a spear, a lance. (See

st

No. 2). That which remains after taking
out the radical is not a regular phonetic.
The radical is not the regular X, ko', as
can be seen in the seal writing. The
original meaning was a battle ax &, and
it had AR shu?®, (contracted) to pick beans,
(See No. 547) in the center. It may have
been a weapon which was used both in
military and agricultural pursuits, and so
always at hand in time of war or peace ;
hence its use as a symbol for relatives
who are always at hand. The meaning
of grieved is explained in the 3 % Shuo
Wen thus :—Owing to its being a weapon
of war, it caused a pang of regret to arise
when seen. !

kan®, To attend to, business.
kan', Radical No. 51, arms, a crime. (See No.

110).

§,’\,§>’ kan' Phonetic, the sun B penetrating into

A A, ju' the jungle Y and drawing up
the vapor 5. (SeeNo.137). The action
of the sun is transferred to a man who
has a F kan', a stick in hand. (See
No. 110). The seal writing represents
the overhanging branch about to take
Page-331
928‘1%

929%

930 ;iﬁ

lan’,

321

root, the form with A ju', to enter, re-
presents the tree as rooted and separated
from the parent tree.

, To overflow, profuse.

JK. ¥ shui, Radical No. 85, water. (Sec No. 79).
Eﬁ chien, Phonctic, to watch, a prison. (See No.

294).

When the water of a river is confined
within its banks it is where it should be,
but when it breaks over @, it is like a
criminal who has broken jail.

K uei', Wanting, defective ; a grievance.

hu*

Radical No. 141, a tiger, a tiger skin.
(See No. 258).

This cannot be broken up into radical
and phonetic. Perhaps the character
was coined to accord with the expression
47 78 1 J& hsing® wei® ju* hu', “ He acts
like a tiger,” a man who is not governed
by rules of propriety. The 4£ chui', a
short-tailed bird, is used to impersonate a
man.

is the breath overcoming an obstacle.
Thus the character represents one who
overcomes any compunctions of conscience
and, like a tiger, forgets all kindnesses
and does violence to friend or foe.

chuang', Appearance, complaint, a law suit.
jt ch’iian® Radical No. 94, a dog. Pictorial cha-

racter.

3“[ ch’iang® Phonetic, the left half of a tree. (See

No. 84). The # X, Shuo Wen explains
Page-332
322

this character thus :—There is no animal
the offspring of which more strikingly
resemble in appearance the father or
mother than the offspring of dogs ; there-
fore the selection of this radical. The one
half of a log H, also has a striking resem-~
blance to the other half.

%1 ﬁ[‘, EK Iuan', Confusion, disarranged, anarchy.

Z. * Radical No. 5, germination, movement.
(See No. 137).

E luan® Phonetic, a thread X & being disentan—
gled by two hands &. The rack H on
which the thread is suspended is probably
the loom. The | is Z, i, which repre-
sents the thread being drawn out. (W. 90
B). (Archaic meaning, to put in order).

(ind yian', To dislike, ill will.

Iy hsin', Radical No. 61, heart. (See No. 18).

4B yiian' Phonetic, to turn in bed, decency. (See
No. 42). This character is explained by
starting with i hsin', the heart; the feel-
ings are hurt and consequently the person
turns away ¥ hsi!, acts as if it were
night, and has nothing more to do 1, B
chiel?, with the one who has done the
injury.

i

 

hut', Converge, deposit, a draft; to send
money by draft.

[: fang' Radical No. 22, a chest, a log hollowed
out. (W.51 A).

Y huai Phonetic, the name of a large river in

Honan and Anhwei. It may have receiv-
Page-333
QSSm

i

328

ed this name owing to the great number
of water fowl in this region. The [
fang', a chest or receptacle, (See No. 925)
indicates that a large amount of water
must be confined with banks. The JE is
an incorrect writing.

an* én*, To lay hand on, according to.
¥ show, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

‘i.’ an',

Phonetic, peace, quiet. This phonetic
shows how women were regarded. If
she, & was in the house 7 all was peace-
ful, but if not, the opposite condition
obtained as she would stir up trouble.
The Shuo Wen says in explanation of
% an*:—if one uses the hand and holds
on to his goods, keeping them in their
proper place, he also will receive advan—
tage from this course of action.

chier?’, To lessen, to diminish.
JK, ¥ shu?, Radical No. 83, water. (See No. 79).
,& hsien® Phonetic, to bite, to wound with the

17,
E I#,
ﬁ,*j n*

mouth ; modern meaning, all. (See No.
305). The Shuo' Wén® simply affirms
that this character is arbitrarily used for
the above meaning; consequently no
logical reason for the combination is set
forth. Water is the radical and & is a
simple phonetic.

A grain, a hundredth, tenth of a cash.
Radical No. 166, a village, a Chinese mile.
(See No. 82).

Phonetic, to cut down, to diminish. This
Page-334
324

937 E

938 %

is composed of &, to cut down a big tree
% wei', I represents its falling. (W. 120
C). This character was originally used
for another meaning, but it has long been
wsed for the ahove. A M is a plot of
ground divided into small fields. The
tree is fallen and split into small frag-
ments and onc of these can be regarded
as a grain

tan', Single, odd, thin, only, but ; a list, a bill.
[ K ou’, Radical No. 30. the mouth. (See No.

17). This is a character which originally
represented a quarrel "™, hsian', two
mouths, and an assault with a shovel
¥ pan' or pitchfork. (W. 72 E). It
has long since lost this meaning and is
used for single, odd, and so forth. The
original meaning of the phonetic is seen
in the following characters, & tan' a
crossbow, a bullet, a shell, and 8 chan’,
to fight.

pao’, To protect.

/f , }\ jén*, Radical No. 9, a man.

939 ﬁ’%

% tai', Phonetic, an idiot. This was arbitrarily

given to this character. The real phonetic
is & X pao’. A bird spreading its wings
to cover its nest. Another older writing
is &, a hen covering her young to protect
them. This originally did not have a {
Jjén’, at the side. Theidea was to protect
as a hen protects her young. (W.94 C).

. lei,»* To connect, to implicate, often, weary.
SR szi, Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 141).
Page-335
v

Mlﬁ

525

EI t'ien’, Phonetiv, a field. (Sec No. 212). This

was originally & Jei*, three articles con-
nected or tied together. Because of the
difficulty of writing, these have been
reduced to M and the etymology lost.
The % was that which held the articles
together.

chui', A pledge, to pawn, hanging on, repeti-

tion.

E per*, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).
ﬁ %ﬁ ao® Phonetic, to go out for a stroll, it should

be written #, to go out H for relaxation
Jik fang', as animals are let out to pasture,
and will return again. (See No. 147).
With the addition of H per!, valuable,
(See No. 38), it was used for a security
left in the hands of a person from whom
something has been borrowed.

The meaning of repetition may have
originated owing to the repeated entreaty
of the horrower to recover the agticle
pledged before the loan was refunded.

ts’ang®, To conceal, to store up.
+H ts'ao’, Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22).
IR tsang' Phonetic, good, generous, compli-

ance, the virtue of ministers. H ch'i-
ang®, which often means strength, and %
ko', weapon, when united form #% ch’i-
ang®, to do violence to. When E ch'én’,
a minister, is added this force and violence
is only used in accordanc: with the
benign purposes of the official who
watches and defends the state. When
Page-336
326

942%

* ¥k

50

ts'ao’, is added it means covered with
grass, to store up, to conceal. Perhaps
this phonetic was chosen owing to the
mystery attending government action.

hao', To squander, to consume ; bad.
R lei*, Radical No. 127, a plow. (See No. 601).
% mao’, Phonetic, a hair. (See No. 254).

The Shuo Wen claims that the radical of
this character should not be 3K Jef® but &
ho?, Thus the original idea was the
beard or husk % of grain &, the chaff;
grain threshed and removed, nothing but
the chaff & remained.

chang®, To overflow, an inundation.
7k, ¥ shuf, Radical No. 85, water. (See No. 79).
3& chang', Phonetic, to draw a bow ; to extend,

increase ; a classifier of tables; paper, a
surname. (See No. 55).

Water K increases and extends #& over
the surface of the land.

Kou*, To knock, to deduct, to hook on, to

buckle, to button, a discount.

%,45 shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No.

53).

B X o4, Phonetic, the mouth. (See No. 17).

This combination # was originally used
for the governing of a horse with bit and
bridle. The hand F exerted influence
on the mouth I of the horse. The idea
of to buckle or to button may have
originated from the necessity of putting
the bridle over the head of the beast.
Page-337
327

The bridle once on the animal had to do
what the driver desired. Discounts are
exacted by those who have power over
another.

945 =
ﬁ __ hsiang? Felicity, good luck.
73 shih*, Radical No. 113, to show, a revelation.
(See No. 164.).
32 yang®, Phonetic, a sheep. (See No. 253).
Most of the characters which have ¥,
yang®, for a phonetic have a good mean-
ing. Thus, this combination stands for a
fortunate or auspicious ¥ revelation ’R.

946
& tuan', Satin.

;ﬁ szit*, Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).

B% tuan', Phonetic, a fragment, a section. The
left part of this phonetic is said to be a
contraction of i # tuan’, origin, a plant
which develops both above and under the
ground. The right side is %, shu®. (See
No. 165). This combination indicates
that the plant has been violently torn to
pieces. It may have been selected because
in the manufacture of silk the cocoon is
thrown into hot water; the chrysalis is
killed, the thread unwound, thus destroy-
ing the cocoon.

B m plei, A pendant, to hang on the girdle, to
esteem. .
A, /f jén?, Radical No. 9, man.
m The phonetic is not found in K'ang Hsi’s
dictionary. It is composed of J far, all,
and M chin', cloth, and is supposed to
Page-338
328

* e

949 %

represent the small ornaments hanging
from the girdle M chin?, # Y, # 0 (W. 21
D). When a gentleman went out he
always wore ornaments on the girdle.
These ornamients he selected because he
admired them ; by extension this charac-
ter is now used to express satisfaction
with a person or things.

chuan’, To sell at a profit, to make money,

gain.

E per*, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38),
% % chien', Phonetic, to join together; together

with, both. This is a hand holding two
stalks of grain, a hand binding sheaves.
(W. 44 I). The idea of this combination
B is to increase the investment E, to
double 4 it.

N huo', To open out, liberal ; to remit.
¥ ki, Radical No. 150, a valley.  (See No. 579).
% hai* ho', Phonetic, to injure. (See No. 436).

This character # seems to have two ex-
planations :

1. A person has met with misfortune %
hai* or ho', and others have opened #
ku®, their hand liberally for his assistance.
2. One has a calamity % ho', such as a
harelip, % ch’iao®, the upper lip. A person
who has a harelip is spoken of as a #F
huo' tzii'. (See No. 509). %4 ch'iao* not
being a radical 4 ki, was substituted.

9! 5
- %I?‘,a chih', A bough, to prop up, a branch, to ad-

vance money, to draw money.
This is the 65th radical. The old writ-
Page-339
951

952%

 

329

ing represents a hand pulling a bough
from a tree. (W. 43 C). The reason
why this character is used to express
giving out money is because the tree puts
forth branches from the trunk. Note the
phrase Z#EX to' huo' ch’ang® chih!, to
generously overlook the debts of clerks,
who have borrowed from the employer
more money than their wages amount to.
At the end of a prosperous year these
sums are not collected.

To take up, to suggest ; to bring forward.

:F ? shou®, Radical No. 64, thehand. (See No. 53).
% shih', Phonetic, right. (See No. 12). With-

out phonetic significance. To take up &
that which is proper £ in order to teach
or instruct.

shih®, To paint, to ornament, to adorn, to

pretend.

shih®*, Radical No. 184, food, to eat ; eclipse.

(See No. 75).

This character is an exception to the rule,
as the radical is also the phonetic. In
sacrificing an animal it was put before
the gods and afterwards eaten. This
accounts for the use of ®& shih', as
radical. The rest of the character is f.
The upper part is a man and the lower is
a cloth ; before sacrificing the beast a man
with a cloth cleansed it and thus im-
proved its appearance. By extension, to
adorn.
Page-340
330

953§

954§

965 ﬁ

1, Skill, an art.
H ts'a0%, Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22).
ﬂ i#* Phonetic, to plant, to cultivate the

ground. This is from 3% lu', mushroom.
(See No. 485), and + t'u* earth which
form # I, arable land, BE I, dry land,
(mushrooms grow on high land), and 7t &
ch#, to hold an instrument or utensil in
the hand. Working the soil was the first
art practiced by the Chinese. (See No.
139). The '* ts'aod®, and & yiin® have
been recently added, % yin®, cloud, is
composed of = shang* (See No. 93), and
g I, vapor, rising and forming clouds.
Thus the character for farming is compos-
ed of * vegetation, $t tilling the soil and
% clouds which give rain, without which
all effort is vain.

tsan', A fine chisel ; to engrave.
4> chin', Radical No. 167, metal. (See No. 13).
@i chan®*, Phonetic, to decapitate, to cut in two.

(See No. 803). A metal instrument used
for cutting. This utensil 3 is smaller
than the ordinary carpenter’s chisel ; it is
used in the manufacture of jewelry in the
# i shou® shih* shops.

pa?, To root up, to draw up or out; to

elevate, promote.

F.F: show, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
pa® Phonetic, a dog led by a leash. (See No.

626). This leash enabled one to pull or
haul the dog around at will and thus the
Page-341
956 5 5%

957§$

-

331

above meaning has been given to this
combination.

szit', Silk as it comes from the cocoons, fine,

wire.

5k szu mi* Radical No. 120, silk. (See No. 8).

;"ﬁ mi* Phonetic. (See No. 141).
The second writing # is not allowed by
K’ang Hsi. This character was one of
the original 540 radicals. The repetition
of 5 mi* indicates that it is not a single
thread from a cocoon, but several, ten,
are supposed to be required to form a &
szit'. In characters which use the & hsi*
phonetic there is a figurative or real con-
nection. ¥ sun', a grandson ; $ hsien', a
district, (See No. 390) ; here the criminal’s
head is hung up for exhibition.

han', To solder.
4> chin', Radical No. 167, metal. (See No. 13).
han', Phonetic, the torrid effect of the sun,
drought. (See No. 343). Great heat is
required to melt the solder.

yao', To engage, to seek, to invite.
3_ cho' Radical No. 162, to run and stop. (See

No. 10).

yao' Phonetic, to shine. This is made up
from K fang’, to liberate, (See No. 147
and No. 712) and & pas, white or light;
the meaning is, to shine. When j_ cho’,
is added the idea is to go to the one who
can give you light or help. A person is
engaged because he can give assistance,
shed light, make conditions better.
Page-342
332

959% 4:%3

ta', To add to, to pile up.
shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

"/uﬁ ta' Phonetic, vetch, peas, vegetation the

960 a;ﬂl;

branches of which get entangled, (W. 14
B). The pea vines and vetch extend, far
from the stalk adding joint after joint
and thus with the addition of § shot’, a

- character is formed which means, to add

to. This character is unauthorized.

no?, To move, to remove.

4: EF shou®, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).
%l; ﬂ% na', Phonetic, that ; a place § & where people

961&

wore skins with the hair out £ for cloth-
ing. It may be that this people were
nomadic and thus with the addition of
hand the character is wused for the
above meanings. It is an unauthorized
character.

chan, A storehouse.

N mut, Radical No. 75, wood. (See No. 22).
% chien' Phonetic, to destroy, narrow, small

&

(See No. 13). Thischaracter 4 was origi-
nally used for a small frame platform
built in the camp to protect an officer
while sleeping from attack, and from the
moisture of the ground. It was also used
for a lookout during military operations.
By extension it is now used for a store-
house, as goods in a # chan®, are suppos—
ed to be secure.

san™’, Miscellaneous, to fall apart; separate ;

a powder.
Page-343
963@

7

333

i p'e* Radical No. 66, (contracted) to tap, to

rap. (SeeNo.17). The original phonetic is
destroyed by using p'u' as the radical for
classification in modern dictionaries. B, A,
jou', meat, should be theradical and #san’,
to beat % hemp stalks i p’ai* to cause the
threads to separate, is the real phonetic.
(See No. 24). When H jou', meat, is
added the character was used for beating
meat to cause it to separate into shreds
for cooking. By extension it is now used
for the separation of anything. (W. 79
H).

hsieht, To lay aside, unload.
]] chieh? Radical No. 26, a seal, a tally. (See No.

42). The phonetic part of this character
is not used alone and therefore has no pro-
nunciation. The upper partis 4 wa’, (See
No. 190), one of the twelve stems; each
stem stands for an animal and the one
which is associated with 4 wu’, is the
horse 5 ma’. This stem is easier to
write than horse and is therefore substi~
tuted for the latter. The 1t chil’, to stop,
with this stem implies stopping the horse
and taking off his burden. The T chiel?,
indicates that this is done at fixed inter-
vals on the journey.

wu', A thing, an article.
4 2 niv’, Radical No. 93, a cow, an ox. (See No.

50).

Z’, ”” wu* Phonetic, a negative, do not ; a flag with

three pennons, usnally used to indicate a
Page-344
334

965 %

%Bm

¢

prohibition. An ox, 4, niu®, was the
most valuable asset in ancient times.
The addition of the flag to the ox may
have indicated its importance—it was not
to be disposed of. This character is now
used for any article, regardless of value.

ang’®, Sugar, malt candy ; glazed with sugar.

* mi® Radical No. 119 rice. (See No. 47).

&% ¢

P

ang® Phonetic, boasting talk, a dynasty ; the
song O of men working f in unison, as
in pounding (rice) B 7§ keng' with a
heavy stone pestle % kan'. This phonetic
may have been selected as the preparing
of grain for malt candy requires that it
be crushed ; in this process large stone
mortars may have been employed and
several men manipulated the heavy
pestles, who exerted strength according
to the rhythm of a song. (W.102 B).
Hsii Shih Shuo Wen makes the following
comment : % $E3& . mi® nieh* chien® yeh®,
““ After the rice has sprouted it is heated.”
BERESE TE  “(Candy) can be made
from cane, from honey, from millet and
from wheat.” The sugar (candy) made
from millet and wheat was called # %
This indicates that as early as the Han
Dynasty 200 B. C., the Chinese were
making malt candy, but it was then a
recent discovery, as the writer Hsii Shih
says that # t’ang’, is a character recently
added.

i, To criticise, to arrange for the purchase of,
Page-345
967 %

9681%

385

* - shou’, Radical No. 64, the hand. (See No. 53).

B 0§ 2

Phonetic, to compare. Two A characters
reversed and standing together as if com-
paring their height or strength. When
# shou’, is added the idea of criticising is
given to this combination. In criticising
one generally states what has been done
and afterwards sets forth what should
bhave been done; thus bringing out a
comparison.

p’1%, The spleen, temper.
]23, ﬁ Jjou*, Radical No. 130, meat. (See No. 133),

B pef',

P’ pi* Phonetic, p'#*, lassitude, pei’, bases
low, vulgar, (See No. 526). This phone-
tic may have been given because the
spleen is lax or soft in texture. The
spleen was supposed to aid the stomach
in the work of digestion. It is located on
the left of the stomach and as # pei', was
a drinking vessel with a handle on the
left, this may have been another reason
for the use of this phonetic.

ou®, An image, a pair, paired; sudden, acci-

dental.

A, £ jéen*,Radical No. 9, a man.
I% yii® Phonetic, an image. (archaic)  (See No.

860).

The origin of this phonetic is not the
same as of the phonetic in the 860th cha-
racter. The two are identical in modern
writing and even in the old writing they
arc frequently interchanged. # i, to
dwell in, is the correct writing for this
Page-346
336

969 %

970 %

9‘71%

character according to the oldest authori-
ties. When an image of a man was carv-
ed out of wood they believed that the
spirit of the individual dwelt in this
image. The ® yi, impersonates the
spirit. With the addition of { jér’, there
would be a pair. To use ff for * sudden”
is arbitrary.

chia', To ride in a carriage, to harness; Your
Honour.
:% ma’, Radical No. 187, a horse. (See No. 261).
j]l] chia', Phonetic, to add to. (See No. 318).
This combination was first used for har-
nessing animals to a vehicle:—to add i
the horses #5 to the carriage.

chu?, To harden by pounding, as a threshing

floor, to make mud walls, to build.

,f:f chi, Radical No. 118, bamboo. (See No. 7).

YU k’ung’ Phonetic, to undertake. (See No. 518).
This is not a complete phonetic as we
have to add 4 mu', wood, to it before it
is finished. It was used for the ramparts
or fortifications used in warfare, and the
#* chu’, was originally M, wooden racks
placed on top of the wall to prevent the
enemy from climbing over. The & mu!,
is said to be the short logs which were
used to ram the earth into a solid mass.

wei’, To submit, a grievance : to depute.
ﬁ‘ nii’, Radical No. 39, a woman. (See No. 16).

% ho, Phonetic, grain, (archaic phonetic

sur*), (See No. 771). Thisis a proper pho-
Page-347
972 5‘@

973ﬁ

387

netic and indicates the heads of millet
etc. being gathered. This character has
two distinct meanings and may have
originated in different places.

1. To submit. The heads of grain hung
drooping: when % ni’, was added to
this it was taken as the symbol of the
proper attitude of woman, she should
acquiesce even to unreasonable demands
from her husband.

2. The grain R ho?, was stored at home
and given into the care of the women
when the male members of the household
had to leave on business :—thus the mean-
ing of depute.

t#*, To hand to or transmit.
3. cho' Radical No. 162, to go. (See No. 10).
E ti* Phonetic, a beast like a tiger, with horns.

An examination of the characters which
use this phonetic show that there is no
common idea attached to them. It is
therefore necessary to regard it asa simple
phonetic. It seems to have been used in
connection with the sending of messages.
The 3_ cho, indicates that originally it
might have necessitated a journey. At
present it is used for, to hand to.

p'ien’, Inclined to one side ; partial prejudiced.
’f A jén?, Radical No. 9, a man.
ﬁ pien* Phonetic, a tablet hung over a door.

From B hu'a door and i} ts’e!, inscribed
bamboo slips. (W. 156 D). As these
tablets are always hung with the lower
Page-348
888

974 ﬁ‘l

975 #

| 978%

‘edge against the wall and the upper edge
some inches away from it, they are taken
as the symbol for not straight, inclined.
And when man, {, jér?, is added he
takes on this quality of deflection.

1it Laws, regulations; custom.

/f ,A jén®: Radical No. 9, a man.

. ﬁ'] Iieh* Phonetic; to. divide, seriatim, arrangelin

order. - (See No. 711). Thisis not an old

‘character. It is explained thus:fthe
crimes %, ta®, of a man 4 jér?, are sepa-
rated J ¢ao',:and placed in order ZJ lieh!,
‘and the law is:administered accordingly.

t'un* To swallow, to gulp down; toiabsorb,

grasp.

1 K ou’, Radical No. 30, the mouth. (See No.

17).

9{ t’ier’, Phonetic; the heaven. (See No. 113).

pi,

This character & is explained in two
-different ways : K t'ien’, heaven, the sky,
envelopes ‘all.’ It appears like a huge
mouth about- to swallow everything.

""The second -explanation commences with

~ i',-one; and K ta', great or large, and
O K o’y swhllowing in one big mouthful.

Used wup, deteriorated, vicious; my;
mine.

' kung® Radical No. 55, hands joined and held

up. ' (Set No. 247).

"‘"ﬁ!( pi*; Phonetic, mean, poor, ruined, my, mine.

‘(See No. 211). 'The character 8 was ori-
« ginally written 8¢ with R ch'iar’, a dog,
Page-349
339

instead - of J. kung?. ' It indicated that
the. dog was dead and useless. The old
writing/is now never seen. The present
writing. is two hands  exhibiting a
garment. which has been worn to shreds
&, by beating X.

977 i :
%’ : p'et’; Lose money ; indemnify.

B pe, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).

::;a t'ou' Phonetic, to cut a speaker short. (See
No. 332). Hete the phonetic is used to
indicate that something has been injured
or a business has not been successful;
with the addition of .H pei*, it indicates
that money has.been lost—by extension,
the giving of money as indemnity.

b E 3 ch'ang?, To restore, to forfeit, to atone.
1 j A jén®, Radical No. 9, a man.
'énslzang‘, Phonetic, -to bestow. (See No. 596).
The addition of { jén?, forms the charac-
ter which is-used for restoring or making
amends.

E mer?, Eye brows.

B mu', Radical No. 109; the eye. (See No. 102).
This:is an old: character and cannot be
divided into radical and phonetic. The
top..of the old writing A indicates the
wrinkles above the eyebrows on the fore-
head: the [ is the eyebrow and H. @.
mut, is the eye. The present form is-an
arbitrary -modification; and. the above
features are largely lost.

980 %E chan', To usurp, to seize.
Page-350
840

981 E

982 2&

983%

ANA

Jjér*, Radical No. 9, a man.
& chan®*, Phonetic, to inquire about some enter—
prise by heating a tortoise shell, divi-
nation ; to usurp. (See No. 132). Thef}
is an unauthorized character and is not
described in the Shuo Wen. It seems to
have been invented to make a distinction
between the two meanings of the charac-
ter 5 chan"* the meaning of the 1st tone
is to divine, of the 4th tone is to usurp.

Iin*, To lease, to rent.
B pet*, Radical No. 154, precious. (See No. 38).
Jjén*, Phonetic, a man — carrying a load sus-
pended from the two ends of a pole I,
a load, a burden . When { jén’, is
added the burden is transferred to another
A, bence the meaning, a trust, office.
(W. 82 C). With the addition of H pef,
there is an obligation of money which
has been contracted for value received.

kuang®, To ramble, to stroll.
3 cho' Radical, No. 162, to go. (See No. 10).
* Kuang®, Phonetic, mad, wild, raging. (See
No. 794:). The ¥ is an uuauthorized cha-
racter. The combination indicates travel-

ing in any direction the fancy may deter-
mine,

t'zi%, Porcelain, china ware.
JL wa®, Radical No. 98, tile. (See No.'558).
R t'zu', Phonetic, inferior. From /R cKien, de-
ficient. (See No. 273). With the addi-
tion of — e, two, second, inferior. The
Page-351
984

985%

o

341

first is regarded as the best, the second is
inferior. Formerly vessels were made of
gold, silver and wood; when crockery
ware was substituted it was regarded as
inferior. % is an unauthorized writing.

wan', A toy, to play.

o

Radical, No. 96, jade. (See No. 124).

)T: yiian®, Phonetic, the first. (See No. 93).

Here this phonetic stands for the highest
quality, When E yi', jade, is added it
implies the best jade. Cheap or inferior
jade is not prized, Trinkets such as
beads and rings have been used to desig-
nate rank from prehistoric times and the
word ¥t wan', was first employed as the
term for such articles, but is now used for

toy or plaything.

p'ten’, The leaf of a book.

e chut,

' E plen

, Radical No. 118, bamboo (See No. 7).

®, Phonetic, a tablet. (See No. 513).
These tablets are made of board and are
thin in comparison with their length and
width. With the addition of bamboo #
this is the character for a leaf of a bamboo
book. These books were made of slips of
bamboo and tied together. After paper
came into use for making books the same
character was retained for leaf.

shua’, To sport, to fence, to play.

m’i ér’,
# i,

Radical No. 126, the whiskers (archaic),

(See No. 635).
Phonetic, a woman. This is a modern
Page-352
987 Eg

 

988 B

o

character. To play, to act. Chinese ac-
tors use false beards and others dress up
in female costumes and personate women.
Thus the two characters ifi é7%, whiskers,
and & ni¥, women, form the character
for, to act. Thé chdracter, by extension,
is now used for practicing any handicraft
as an occupation. (W.164 A).

chuan®, To turn over, to revolve.; to forward.
ﬁy ché, Radical No. 159, a cart. (See No. 136).
3*;?11"&“" Phonetic, singly, specially, bent on
one object. (See No. 414). This phone-
tic plus cart B forms the character to
revolve as. the wheels of a cart have but

a single function, i.e. to revolve.

ch’il?, Slow; late; steady ; to procx:astinate.
3_ cho* Radical No. 162, to go. (See No. 10).
E hsi' Phonetic, a rhinoceros. The ' shil!, is
the body and # is a contraction .of &
mao®, hair. Tlese, when used together
F? simply indicate that the animal has a
tail. 4 niu® added places the animal in
the bovine class. (The Chinese are not
very careful in their classification of ani-
mals.) This beast when not enraged
moves about slowly. Thus i cho', to
move, with the above phonetic makes a
good character for slow.

, To care for, anxious ; to cogitate.
Ry hsin', Radical No. 61, the heart. (See No.-18).
This character. cannot be divided into
radical and phonetic. It is.composed of
Page-353
»999.&

991 W&

843

B & szu, to think, head and heart (See No.
45). When ¥ hd, tiger, (See No. 258),
is .added the idea is conveyed that the

ithotights are turned. to. things which

trouble—tigers are greatly dreaded.

fan', To traffic, to deal in.
B pei, Radical No; 154, precious. (See No. 38).
Ii fan®, Phonetic, to turn. (See No. 75).

To turn goods into money H pef, is the
purpose of a metchant.

niot:mar*, The pulse.

%,H jou; Radical No. 180, meat. (See No. 133).
. )ﬁ éﬁ p'at®, Phonetic; water . separating into smaller

m#'%

streams. | This is & yung’, a constantly
flowing spring, reversed, the flow:is still

-constant, ‘but as it leaves the spring it
i-divides up into-several,.streams. (This

character is also written with ifil as the
radical.) The idea is that the pulse
(arteries) break up into innumerable small
arteries and are distributed through the
flesh.

chiian®, To love, to care for, family.
H mu', Radical Noi 109, theeye. (See No. 102).
#e chiian® Phonetic, to pick and cull. (W. 47

K). This is made up of 3 pien', the
tracks of a . wild ranimal, (See-No. 801),
to discriminate; and hands f, i. e. to
select with the hands.. Adding g muf,
the eye, we. -have % to look out for
those. whom ane loves and is responsible
for. In modern writing #& chiian is‘iden~
tical with the phonetic ‘of "No. 609
Page-354
344

993 @

994

BSEEE

" 8% I

shéng* but the seal writing shows one to
be from X huo® and the other from 3 pien*.

sui', Bits, fragments, petty.
K shit?, Radical No. 112, a stone. (See No. 42).
ZE AY tsu® * Phonetic, to die. This is made up of ®

1, clothing, and a [, a stroke across
the back to indicate the wearer was a
soldier. When a man swore allegiance to
a prince or feudal lord he was regarded
as having died ; he was free from all
previous obligation and he henceforth had
no will of his own, he did what his lord
bade him ; he was but a fragment of a
man, a stone i shil?, is used for breaking
or crushing.

t'é, Specially, purposely, only.
4 4 ni?, Radical No. 93, ox. (See No. 50).
# szii*, Phonetic, a court, a temple. (See No.

346). This character seems to indicate
that in ancient times the Chinese were
particular about the quality of animals
used in sacrifice. The color was also
decided on by the court % szi'. Thus
¢ niu®, when added indicated an animal
which, owing to its fulfilling all require-
ments, was set aside for a sacrifice ; now
by extension used for specially.

Jjén', A trust, responsibility, an office.
, A Jjén’, Radical No. 9, a man.
i jén®, Phonetic, a trust, office, (See No. 981)-

Originally this character was used with—
out the £ jén’.

chi®, To raise, to lift up, to introduce to.
Page-355
997ﬁ

2

999%

345

E chin* Radical No. 134, a mortar. (See No.
479). This is another character which
has arbitrarily received a radical foreign
to the original construction. The char-
acter is made up of ® yif, to give, and
+ ¢ shou®, hand the meaning is, to raise,
to lift up, ete.

shik, To try, to test, to verify.

S yér®, Radical No. 149, a word. (See No. 10).

i shih, Phonetic, a form, a pattern. (See No.
576). The & yén’, word, seems to imply
that the one who is to undertake to make
an article according to the pattern is ask-
ing questions before he undertakes the
task, thus securing the experience of
others in addition to the ocular demonst-
ration, thereby verifying his ideas as to
the mode of procedure.

pu', A step, a pace, infantry. (See 484).

1l chik® Radical No. 77, to stop. (See No. 10).
The phonetic part of this character is not
used alone. It is Ik chiF?, to stop, invert-
ed, which indicates the reverse of Ik chih?’,
or to move. In walking first this foot is
advancing while that is stationary ; then
that foot is advancing while this is sta-
tionary.

tid', To cast away, to lose, to leave behind.
— i, Radical No. 1, one. (See No. 19).
+* ch'ii*, Phonetic, to go. (See No. 67).
To go 3 ch'i*, once — 1!, to go one long
journey and not return is to losc.
Page-356
346

lﬁwm’k

1001 %

1002%

chid®, A tong time, long since. -

J plieh Radical No. 4, a stroke to the left.

' (See No. 176).
This cannot be broken up into radical and
phometic. The seal writing represents a
man who is impeded in his walking by a
train. Thus we have the idea of a long
time, as it requires him to move “slowly
and much time is needed to walk a short
distance.

. wel’, To oppose, to-disobey.

3 cho' Radical No. 162, to go. (See No. 10).

ﬁ wei® Phonetic, thongs, refractory, a surname.
(See No. 772). This phonetic is sugges~
tive, when j_ cho, is added it implies
active disobedience, disorderliness.

lo*, To fall, to drop.
He yllll ts’ao®, Radical No. 140, grass. (See No. 22).

% Ilo* Phonetic (Archaic), a trench for irrigation,
water 2K used by each -man #%. Each
man’s field was separated from his neigh-
bor’s by these trenches; thus the idea of
separation is conveyed. With the addi-
tion of ¥ ts'ao®, it was used for the fall-
ing of leaves in the autumn; they fall -
when separated from the stem. (W. 31
B). Now this is used for the falling of
anything.

—oee—
Page-357
N ER R

BTN E

383

=k

940

123

40
397

| CHAN

 

'fl;

WESERES

CH'AN
E
‘1 CHAKNG
12
e
% {
R

B
%

=
%=

CH'ANG

368

943

024 | s

= I

978

EEEEL

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.

| CHAD

w915
Ik 246
% 333
% 333
W 464

1

|

| cH’AQ
w687
w464

A
CHEN

 

JR 673
W™ 9281
& 112
#oo122
| 122|C
W 915

cHE

& 10|7

¥ 855

% 210
879

HREENEEEERRERSASREEY W M

o

IF

cwf
w15
T o161
W 136

B

 

4+ 805 A
o 8057

 

HENBM ERMERABE S OO

o

&

 

EERW R ERE E

CHIA

{3 18

{221

4
47

282
544
582
455
747
842
926
914
914
914

111
229
229

494
318
594
969

645
645
606
883
262

 

|m 262
CH'IA
o852
w70
CHIANG
H o84
i 654
F 419
& 621
B 621
i 354
@ 232

| ue

{

CH'IANG
W 2%
g5 232
o 4sd
B 454
w666
W 94l
CHIAO
% 613
% 400
% 400
5 230
W 135
% 822
w117
5

g 435
Page-358
8
g

Y Hﬁaﬁﬁ#%#m‘ﬁﬁ' R O oSN R

BENFESTBRFAMEI B O
BEEEREIPIE BRSTEI AN

HOHHESTRES X B

B

 

 

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

168
170

it

815
484
128
349

{349

8
154
139
171

39

450
88

o
o
-
I}

8
375
288
288

4
542
988

=
=2

143

=
@

419
358

13
120
402
648
648

ant

HRIBLFTERRE O B

CH'ING

 

BEe o

765

750

 

 

910(me  TLiM 889
7o 476
750|9m 42 A {780
w412
CHIU = |684
fu 33 405
T 866 @ {847
291
A {1000 CH'0U
76| 438
B {479 w732
% ig? ® 782
B {623 ;40
i 589!
o8l CHU
% 150|E 210
336
cww | T 7
| 150{%& 970
875‘1* 160 3 295
A 401
cHIUNG By 677
7 4e3|W 149
§ 412
CH'TUNG |
g o6 |T
301 | 46
= 115
CcHO s 409
56| 409
= {631 B 603
i 56(am 876
i 10
Z 10 CHUA
% 333\ 281
83
cmow |
038 | CHUAN
A {103 o 44

w987
946
B 948
CH'UAN
& 598
321
# {539
m 57
M 853
P
204
kS {414
a1t
CHUANG
w855
g 855
¥ 605
B 930
CH'UANG
k84
K84
W 230
jo87
B {54
w584
B 833
CHUI
. [ 21
& {154
@ 9
BoT45
% 940
cEUL

 

387
= {352
Page-359
ALPHABETICAL LIST. 349

 

 

 

 

 

CHUN [z 5784y % 496 (% 047 | HAO M 201
4 516|I% 578 e 612 ;s (sF  90|#% 785
olmoosel B {383 e {286 ¥ {672 £ 042(m 62
CH'UN . . JE 867|388 W 258|724
# 167 CHUAN |gR o 790 508
B 563 {600 _ {-zo FEN |yt 672|HE B 988
moseu|, U92|= Lol 181, {729 £ 556
W osct|® 9925 sim omi|” ;22 7 ss0|HSTA
cwijay | T 52| 92
CHUNG |y goo|® 763 sos|Al 207 g ;gg T o
2170 s00|® 3 %9 106
® % 33|
o 57 494 | 635 FENG w318 #5168 168
= = 4
& 222 552)p, * ozl {glg B omi|m 591
Booo04| s 885\ 5 g liE sial Ol op)
JB 686 | 428 w20 i 812\ W {151 HSIANG
@ {7 oeoe eso|® MW a16\EEL g 189
N B 214|H {';‘gi B 76s|m 178|% 379
CHUEH | .. B 768 465
CH'UNG 52 626z 734 A 1
10915 g5 4% 847 HEN 106
@ 233R yeo8 B 481y ool o8| 106
& {;33 % 923|FaN B0 e m 465
& 43| 75|H 10 . {495 HOU % 834
CHU crtea || 9905 o 55418 413 |ff 834
80 195| 7 8| 413|876
o {1 |® 1 oo 5 g B TIOR8
i 86l | AP {135 #0887 oo % 180 B 126|585 466
Bo9Tl|gg soa|T 8|0 0 S (B 126 o922
E 625|g 778 FANG & 61 % 186(% 909
W 269 &
45 625 |m 374 ¥ 945
92 % 436
» 42| P HST =839
CHUN 503
BT84 ap| P o 443 |HAN | o { 14
® 4B % 147 B {493 r {841 579 | HSIAQ
W 820 lcwiN | 841l 493 4209 26| 5 o1
82015 83075 TIg|4 o B 50013 222\ 435
B 9%, 3178 343§ 520 400
R FEI % o3alss oo7|m 56| %F la0s
ol |m 5%8[dk 276|#k T40[s% 602 R 890|Z 417
% 6TIfR 176|48 7084k 647| % B98® 80707 o027
Page-360
350 ALPHABETICAL
B 77|k 139(j 258 |HUI
BO890|gE o44|pE 288 595
£ 422|813 g 62
HSIEM gt 422\ 669 674
g 20 656 /% 590 |4 699
g5 650 JE 894 |jy  590|m 38
o 963|  gop|#  S49g 230
# 163 E 933
3% 163 |gsry HUA £ 869
B 4l 4 20
B s42 {153 HUN
B 662 HSIUNG |(p 488|3% 447
T2 488
HSIEN . & 73 HUNG
% o1/BU @ oersig s
502 | 1 {305 WE 483
" {305 }k 730’11“:
g 70| # 527, | Y0
m o o1o4|H 904 F 306 -
g (a1l [H3% % {432
792 | HSUAN (e 933 £ 646
B 792 he  [424) s 5
w509 fis) g d:g
B 890 — )gvz 659
# s03|HSUEE & o251 %
- Il 422
K97 2L
msw (@ eslm ooy HOO19
o0z (g o11|® 616
b 2| & % 949
1g|® 46215 144
& 18 | ’g 849
B 45| | 919
¥ o4 ;ﬂswmtmnme |
& 195 444 T
* 394’511 639 {Px
5 [180% 639 19
HSING 5 6391 X 165
7 1(30 FOT2 g gsg X 576
Touer|me 723 207 & 187
% sy cer ® {696‘3 191

LIST,

= 5 BEHEROBRRD B WO N ED FHE

®

g

JAO

ok H

A
JEN

 

A

E
Q@

 

1214 126"KAN
288JL 27T/ 110
439 122 Es 23
450 3] 3T e 137
439 (7. 378 137
51|72 37 @ 927
SL|E 995|343
11 9
t® {Qg} 502
311 2lEg 545
54| F 139
44 K'AN
404 | JIH L 46
5}]0 n 12| 102
e [ sm1
451 70U s
597
133 | EANG
851 | A | R'ANG
863 =
63
o551 70 ‘ﬁ% T
953| A 3L
L {325'
| 5214 203
5
o 8 T
506 2] {38
lJuNe
3|5 579 TR0
e 276
B (b
514 LS
& 27L{4A g
% 700| 2
430 %% 487 23
430 |#E 528l a8
1363 33 % 212
B 198
K'AL % 163
3\p 175 % 152
Page-361
5l t
& 5364
B 56| %
o T14
'k |xoy
R {152‘ B
%5 3641*
7l 180
o4 X0
®m 8T
M 600 @
o 818 R
B 611 4
W649|
KEI "
@ 16| ¥
JE
&EN 3
158 | H
B {2‘2’3 B
w228 B
iR 31418
R 484 | B
xfyn  |KU
#2908 |m
KENG :z
226
= {492
% %slxm
#
KU | #
1 670|/
% 296|
4y 8T1|EE

   

 

 

 

 

ALPHABETICAL LIST,

 

 

871 K'VA | KUEL
G 728; 161
143 £ 1207
374 194
B 838
£ 648 215
le sas = {447.
g1q |7 8438 529
B 634
K'UAL . {205
# {863
170 109 925
o |3 215 |fE 925
17
564 | KUAN K'UEL
579
{ore | auo s {658
% 481!
299 % 78
ose| i 9Blue gog
se1|M 95
361 L Mllxun
01| {421
csl 6301 | 57
ot 630
; (123 KON
815 {726
902 |ua 704
I
pou 1
e | KUNe
777IKUANG ) {55
w0 153
|ge eoo|%5 3801
i : 175
ogr| & 982 3k {247
297 89
;
119|K'UANG |35 854
19 fE T94|3p 682
365 |0k 696 2 569

 

d 483
B 903
K'UNG

& 802
779
i 518
‘[ & 518
Kuo

5 530
= 592
& 530
® 119
411
ZE 51
® 70
LA
w739
W17
LAI

s 64
LAN

& 928
643
w433
LANG
W82
766
B 445
LAO
#0209
% 683

 

 

351

f LIA
% 1002 |4 895
% 1002
w456 LIANG
# 710\ m 196
W 85

LEI w819
sk 60L{f1 445
B TI0(3 559
BO939 |5 87
i 448|4% 373
=939
1fNe r:;ao -
woO18lg s
I

179 | LIER
7 {212 @711
St 216|m 718
¥oosla|m i
#= 360 g 172
B8
w339 |y
o 82
7 ose|W 088
& ose|W 917
g ora|d 499
wa g9 |86 828
w o9 133
B 851|668
w76l | 663
B 351
g 8s6 |LIN
MO164 4k 765
W% 16415 981
#1709 | 588
%L 608 |#F 746
Page-362
852 ALPHABETICAL LIST.

 

LING (@, 931 |MAN ML Mo onve |
G 4T4|E 706 306 2. 8% 1 as7|%& 16
S {138; : 306 * {213 % 665 e
S i oswo|x {7 % 665 ov
B 4725 359|m  130| .. O0|g  991 B 968
; & . 653 Lo et
% 6llg 30| 1302 B %|p  ors
= 46lg 3506 ggs w05 750, U PA
B 446 B 802 ggy o 3 569
LUNG o 802 % aga|d” {ig; A i 3
LI % o8| MANG g 705 | ! 22
#  8llgs oss|t: 676 o e
¥ 620|4 502 | MI0 oo|HAN® w58
& 73 | ma0 | ros| \sBI At 565 |m 53
5 132|LU - 164 BE 269 w887
2 301 :_E ?gg : 102’1“50 ® {459
o B 989 g aor |MIEE |1} {547 B {41 328
W 710 (EF 820 e 19 628) . [626
g 701|Ht 786 F 244|730 w147 955
@ 632|E 829 E gﬁ W10\ gep VIEH  [HR 955
@ o Wi oemmy |50 S2B|FE I,
LUEH A - B 503
Lov B 531 1 NIEN |18 372
g {18 MEI © {i;g .7 % 110
{392 LN 29 515 ;o 1lie 18!PAI s
g 33?. 39l g | ¥ B m oswon { 6
. 3 845 543 # 805 g
691 | % {107 e
v 5 o 7188
& 261)e grg 46|73 581 |mN
% 485w 20l w {i |
#=O93)E 499) Al NAN > 828
E L ¥y |y oelyw (T S
BoumM 5 233 | W 847 50 | pr
o294 mo ool i g s (8T
B 279 MAIL i 24
# 793/ 515 | pAy. | MING NAO NO JR 991
M 32028 575 % 451|m oss|#F oco BE 854
M 991|F 460\ yop
LUAN g 33|m 460 551 | NEL NUNG |PAN
# g owm swl® {61 B o468]3% 467|118
Page-363
ALPHABETICAL
LIST.
853

T44

 

 

 

 

 

s B
38[f% 804
. 29)f 852 ,‘E 804!iﬁ 985 |4  17|SHANG |3t 23
#2938 |k 457 W 513|f  ses . 3
W2 ; s L o1t 78
i : #0526 | PI PING 838 dol™ 344
937 Ky 526 23 T & 15119 %-ms & 837
PAN & 540|K 204 7 {510 w416 52
i i 695 #t 960 |% 560 % 52 suhng
B 2 Woooer|y (25 s 596,
901\ PEL B 856 {500 e oos | {202\ 15
=T a75|F 607
m . 708 B 285
SAL gy 1se[E 391
947 |F1A0 W22
PANG g qp7|F 182 s g7 | 092 & b4 |®
3 675|gs  orrlg (028|P = ogpfs cu® T
#w 675 & {131 @ 5a1|BE 610
® o PN pmve | SAF oa B 609
& g THA0 o6 = p.x|HA0
P ANG lm oss | 538Kk {633 4] 6|SHIH
* 503 | phy P 878 92| & 176 B
% 503\ on3 FO & oss|m 720|T {p'sg
A PEE P 214 s 89| {69
Rh0  |ppne |2 16|H 0% a0 B 482 194
780 4 i sst| @ 675 o) P49
o {495 B g 8204 e B8
521 18 prg st o
il N = q3|m 164
# 68l 461 e o oo ol 2
# 876 - 9 ! 3 {164
PI T g 82 550
o w osor | 63 — o oess| W 290
. {ggé R 5?1 % 15| sw|D 42
B, @ |20 #1635 sl 100
|
# 819|lE {965 B 513 b 14|gmar 454 f; igg
, % 504 x 19
PAO F 802 0 {gg T 340 g ;99 sHEN x {igé
w82 |# 011 |3  512|% {197 99 e {227 %
@A 51wk 2n @ 104 998| o w0 o
B 495 |8 976 woo2se| W ps 12;
489 | P'IEN ) = a5 27| 3
PEL  |fE 856 B o oss7|z 0]y 46
" 973 | %%
& sl 7lm )X {657 % 337|@ 140 »
o|m ses|g o] {231

 

202 -
Page-364
354 ALPHABETICAL LIST.

 

 

 

i 981(yp 563(SUAN | {45‘{3 97| 8 99| H 266
& 5| @ ae|sm eer| T 1989 e & {99 63l
o 952|HF  412|m  o64 a2
W 453|F 9 b TAN " TIA0
B 453 |%%  198|suL *  b4lgm  sT4|TE 160
B 12|W 485|pr  ous [T 155|8%  140|4%  994|¥k 112
w141 [H; 549 Tr1|% 687[Bk 81T
@30 % 10|z 9% TfNG  |TIEH
s  967(SHUA  (gq 71|35 959 |TANG  lac 199 |8k 805
@ 141|mm 986|493 W 4re|m  o40|H 308
T 421 % 493|TA #% 881(3% ado0
i 098|SHUANG g 493|gm  4|@ 893|f oa0|TEH
B 855 g 00| 505 }ﬁ 77| 243 | H gg‘i
g ois|#t 869|mar | . i
L . {197 5 g TANG |TENe
F  53|sEUI 869 mooage|E  A081E 593\ g
B30k 19| oo o5 |ME 78 : ;; =
Zoa0lm o1 T i oo 40Ty agg
% s02lgy ool P0lue qoolmE 95| BT/
B 100\ g8al oo ge reo| 965 | 257 B o
w101 | @ R os|E sem 1T H
Bk 716 | SHUN i 3 893 86,
2 563 B oS B % 1153 TIEN
3 g 363 W o544 ol 118
™ 452 B TAO %
% 516| gz # sl ®  6m { s
- gol® 13(1 8T o 201
- SHUO L {569 71 81 Eon2 # 663
B 3la mlg sos|TAI (B 88 ggp
» {lg; W2y 1ga|® 501 TING
& 876% % {304 & oso|ME 101ipy T 155
299 1B 452 | 219
7 bs1|BE 480 7 1 # 871
% 165 f1 680|% {125 59|81 289
A 346 | o A0 5 { 53\ oo
R 547|8 680/ g5 951
o889 oy
¥ 61 @ T 08 ol & 259
U % 889
w521 M oTw|B 24 292
M 62|45 692|z gl 241|TE ! TING
FOT49| g 288 o5 | % 027|578 TIAO £ 92
B 49|gF 5561 %% {mlm 937148 78lm 266|990
Page-365
ATLPHABETICAL LIST. 355

 

 

 

 

 

 

% 65L[TSAL g 203|T60U  (TSUNG (TUL [ 963
& 651\ 81| 69| (4o A 128|R T4l 597
W 196(m ar0| & {146 it 19814 {595

TI0 K598 B {287 741\ WA
5 o e w8 w
TEAL e ;) fom s £
0 ¥ o562y 0o a8tl WAL
L 1844 5062|g ugo|H 677 TNy
Z o SBLIF 573|440 WL 920\ 8181 o15
B 8453k 281 %993 ﬁ g}lg & 885 | wan
908 | s
T0 #® {50 |18 , 873 A
o solm ™ %0 oro|Tome 2 60
¥ & g
€ 62477 O $L 200 n %&£ 170(% 93
£ooeea R 2L w5 00| B 984
911 % 311 TsE m 800 | % 5
i orr | 2o m | o558 42
0| tN | ) w179 B 42
B 702 lgs o203l 8317 #* 2@ 107
B 534|TSAN | % 3264 13|98  22|% 60
185 u§  326|m: 570 5706
TOU 2 185 ML ik 290 | ruNe
Lol 185 g {449 UL R 2T e WANG
* {568 ®m 844 230/ le {2 @ o7k %8
- {105 W %4 2 ;ig 54917 osg| (194
¥ {oso|g  gsa|tsmne | & 200 o= {350
|p 741 249 5
#2710 B 449 i 865
F1 688|rgan 449 AN g B 90
o TSUN . 120
- B 946 Eo44d
0U & 299|180 @ 477(sm  898|%  1|® 660
=~ o1l on % 664|g 946|H 10414 193
% 767 A 66 @ oo46|% 585 pg 128
ot 192 | gy 157
# {332 IEANG g 149 o9 | T0AY 1z0 | 660
g sse| B 666|mE 123 ;}T gl & S oss|E 719
g 105|M 4l {17 I 7 oss|M 719
] 49|85 4T3 rur 20 (B 38
T840 | g a0k {491 m 38
o ago | T80 TSUNG |z 7o 781|m 38
w689 R {111 g 202048 287|% 694 585lm 88
Page-366
gz

FREEANERNBFRNH IO

9
@®

FEFHA R AP SYFH

634
634
524
216
83
83
510
848
971
772
781
772
1001

g
&

 

877 %
877 | #:
964 | 4
964 | 55
19315
337 4
640 %
538 |
4311ya0

72
728 Z

ras
@

897
897| R

=
B

EREHUYEREN <«
o

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

{
{

283 | YEN

283
440
577
577
755
827

=
r

24|
456
456

417
322

ki
514

ki

16
703
858
858
958
958

EEI «+TSSABu S oo

]
=

173
555
105
697

41|

R BB EITNN

 

N

24
132

353

353
698
178

10
158
808
808
841
841
104
748
748
294

822
157
673
384

39
809
809
809
{ 30
816
816
265

 

K
=
2
@

 

i

%

3k

3

e

23

YU

= 43

% 49

o 34

A4

% 9%

oo 782

W 846
499

H {539

w623

% 160

%485

= 987

# 850

W 850

o912

YUNG

" {23;1

& 497

&K 283!

% w42
w8\ 932
& 88| (636
%= {356
Yo w856
i a79|E 0636
moao 08
x 14 B 836
& oM 6w
4 03| B 418
g 7 /H 418
& olk 4
B el s
£ 284
F 694|yiER
694
5 7s(8 2
F s/l 43
m  sco| % 8%
& scol 3?]2
& 98| % {534
B S0THe gas
807
B o ® 46
%195
Bk 882| YUN
P
YAN | = {ii?
{ 93
263
Page-367
INDEX BY NUMBER OF STROKES.

A letter ¢ indicate that the character is colloquial.

1stroke | Ae¢ 3|Tec 89|F 500 101 173 995
LI A STe 27w & foas| % {o20 e 30

£ 3 e 54|z 415 ke {10 118
| 57\70e 37|jec 368/~  18|4 strokes Bl g
2 ATBIJL TG0 98| pe 98 e 181, gn

Ze 13T\ jue 23|y 77'1“ slsre 2 me 123 o
7 187,0{179 e amr|ge e|&e 1M6/BC Ime g

1 212 Feo 234|Zc 569
ke 91 291 Fe 254
2 Strokes | JL 21 Ac{

3 1000|FKe 113|Ae 244 29

x| 8 i oo ol sor|Ee wa|® (7
=e{' xe 43 M 180 &°{324'7_Ec{93 Z° 27 % 1
Pxi| o, [ 42 e 168 263 | 964 = ¢ 774
+e {52 {500 Bc & {170| 0 953 |Mc 468|5  om

4 g
5o P U] me 143? 170 ;‘gfe Ezﬁ‘\l gg i ﬁg
2 ,
43| Tc 68 1| Fe °
L 323 oo\ tm2| k| m o s |Ke T i

. F 694K ° {513
46|=c Pxi|TF 438| 4, 794 .
e oY %° {350 He 02 9

491 89 132 449 o1 |7t

5 o8| {so| 7 Uoa| 7 ® war|ke 36|, " ifpe ass
24) 72 358
T 155|75c 58l|pge 123/ 122 )iﬁe ke 4 Fo {38

7152 v g o191 A
2z a {129 e 19 JRe 83

- 435 108 be
DL 55 500 Ke 15

be 14 ¥ o L870] B e {yz5 ke {ung 312
g 4e8|e 69 163 . = % {136 ge 18
¢ 857|3  10/Be P 160|Fe 181
LA o . g1l go 98|%ke (163l 0

161 14|71 ¢ .
gii % o zo{Olm 15|xe a9 Lo e {308
7e{iss|Fo 10| o4 366|%e 217 Usjre 63
Ao 126|Fec 562| . 474 #e¢ 16|FHe 80 Fe 5i% T
Ae 35 1% a7\ % o16|B 857\ pe 43|ke 18
165 | V69 ws|& 123[me 23|% 79l 63t
X {go|pe 13| foaar|z  oalwe asslze 3l 100
Page-368
858

Re
le
He
e
#

Fe

Re

{527

{

375
57
266
53
11

190

273
571

Ke 139
fie 664

A

84

Pe 121

5 Strokes

fke 567

F
Re
Ee
Fe
He
o
iTe
e
Ee
Fe
e

:ll_,:c
He
7

e
Wfe
L

e
e

{164

{

188

227
124
665
524
67
155
853
12
97
485
17
23
484
36
54
152
262
268
42

fie
e
B

dte
e

He

s
fite
He
Hie

He

e 111
e {55

1o {5,

£
m
i
Jre
e
e
B

340
558
329
348
323
132
178

20
426
241
782
102
547

227

82

421
386
386
441

96

INDEX BY NUMBER OF STROKES.

ke
e

Fre
@
R
5
He
e
Jeo
e
Fe
&

(Aae

fis e
e

4o
Jie
e

281 510

72
121

Fo 474

me {
Me
*e
ire
w

e
we

x

 

e

283
648
38
28
210
216
142
256
97
139
51

)
| &

@c
&

o
Be

o
Ke
.
¥
m]c
%

 

e’

283
504
500
288
722
409
353

15
100
366
123
556

193

{aos
4
18

138
61

s
8|
{86(1)

14
271
170

{327
495
257

42
2178
496
554
224
214
897
494
548

He 46
BFe 269
X 278

1593
7 st

200
Be i
e 557
H 625
e 723
He 721
&e 450
| gye 682

626
% {55
e 226
£ 165
Ee 816
702
A 60

6 Strokes

ge i
e 7
E
& 8
Jpe 11
e 26
Se 27
% 24

B 34
#% {305
W 38
He 38
& 40
22

325
e s,

 

\
\

 

He
ke
fl:e
xKe
He
@ e
He
“e
W e
"

He
Jire
sgEe
He
Jke
Fe

me
ﬁ(c

fie

e

Ze
He
e
e

43
47
658

51
58
62
71
73
74
45
6
81
83

" 90

103
104

{103

238
110
{111
399 |

112/

119

125

133

150

{5

161
{297

194
253
165
184
187
189
198

 

He
*

0y {158 "

e
He

| 5%

FF
e
FE
e
K
Fe
ik
B
e

%

]
e
Ze
Yee
e
e

dte

E&;‘c
7

&

e
A
fne
Fije
Jae
Ee
Fe
%z

196 g e 781

%7
e

747

fre 264

698

223 |z e 862
761 | e 923

232 | 5

601

(283 o 99

461

235 | £ °

246 | %
258

266 | ®
272 | I
280 | %
290 15
310 ==
{299”1“:

981
{995

94
{‘215
848
230
288
473
503
530

304 e 944
311 |%ec 934
338|FHe 615
954| gt e 613
360 | Jijc 389

366|511 ¢

209

451 e

42

oo

483 | e 552
180 |fiie 635
518 |fk ¢ 647
525 e 656

532

547|™

424
{428

708 | fRe 674
711 |4k e 646
717 g% e 700
728 |fize 676
728|Fe 675

 

728|

991
Page-369
e
B
e
Zze
e
R
Mo
fic
*xe
[Fl e
He
Hie
43
e

997

34
624
581
570
741
827
634
983
249
384
673

34
583

7 Strokes

fEpe
fite

963
966
975

980 |

2
3

5

10
10
1
20
37
608
66
53
57

£ 72
1534
71
75
79

He
Ke
e
5Ee

B

e
He
&
Fne
ife

Fe
o
e
x

[die
we

fee
S
f&
Fe
R
He
fir e

fa.e
e
fife
dzc

 

e fo10

% {54

o {3

e {145

%e {10

@ (e

82
84
86
93
101
105

107

109
114
114
115
117
120

122
135
135
136
136
138

42

149
157
160
274
221
212
216
226

241
250
269
203
287

INDEX BY NUMBER OF STROKES.

He
Re
2e
e
5

e
He
e
de
Ee
e
Jae
Fe
5

Ee
He
FEe
#e
i

Re
9

He

| %

#F
e
E
e
e
fire
e
Fhe
e
Jke

 

291450
85|30
301
mc
2024y,

321
336 B °

343'22
794 | %

as5 R °
358 X
arg| R ©
ar7 | #o
100 °
{406 e

a13| g o (219

419

2
116
{151/ %o

167 B°

473! & {422

497
510 | &
518/ 91

530 | ¥

873
894
796
709
445
244

560
801
619
938
562
598
767

484
664
8177
446

389
603
855
733

549 | F & 400

{620 %

728
729
736 [T e
740 B e
744 | Br
84| e
85 Fe
806 ) ¢
834 4
870/ R e

 

621

fhie 712 MRe 866
fje 717 Wye 677

% fon

542
830
671
554
390
650
720
510

”n
©

£
Ige
e
| e
o
e
#*
3
ke
s
R
e
e
&Be
e
4ne
%

FHe

Rfe
e
R
ze
ke
e
e
FEec
i ¢
e
#e
e
Be
ke
e

 

{2

| 8 Strokes

260
555
719
547
799
765
953
359
691
705
730
665
139
675
386
100
585
{563
522
388
644
206
669
258
597
564
582
690
652
861
865
897
902
547

 

ik e
w
fie
e

Fe
e
e
$e

He
e
e

e
e
e
e
fiye
Ho
e
Hre

930
941
917
955
964
971
974
984

197
998

889
526
533
538
545
548
713

728
722

732
739
518
756

763
e {gg;

B e
A

fEe
e
e
e
e
ke
e
e
e

768
769
770
808
811
820
815
822
825
827
832
843

359

dhe 846
fte 857
Be 298
Ze 30
e 310
e 316
gre 315
e 827
Fne 330
oy {33‘2
H67
Fie 841
345

e (o35
fFe 350
Pe 353
f§ 359
ffe 372
o (4
Ae {5
e {53
e 380
He 41l
B 414
B 439
e 450
o 463
me {35
e 488
Qe 489
feo 493
Ke 981
Fie 296
e 297
He 178
Page-370
360

Zje 180
woen
o 222
e 228
fie 231
f]Re 239
fEe 257
Ee 259
Bk 506
e 260
Jee 216
He 217
e 278
e 147
ke 147
ffe 480
#1064
Fe 171
®e 173
fhe 174

177
¢ {57
e 993
Feo 182
e 52

54
# e {300

55
£ {j3]
Fe 6l
fre 61

e {3

ke G4
;e 70
e 70
5 8
e 539

e
Ble
Hic
e
fue
He
Me
e
)5
EXd
£

e

&e
%

He
il
HEe
Re
&ec
58

e
e
e

e
Fe
ke
#e
il

e

 

#He'

84
88
96
98
100
105
106
127
132
139
140
6
270
13
13
18

& {3

e {5

56
24
28
35
40
42
42
48
672

9 Strokes

739
559
658
675
888
391

INDEX BY

B
Fe
e
#]

#Ke
e
e
e
*

He
He

Be
e
Bte
Bc
B
Be
R
e
He
%
He
Hie
face
e
)i
e
e
k-
)gc
He
23

e
e

 

£o {3

# ¢ 1002

603
587
422
590
571
611
228
301
619

910

397
55

915
661
617
621
229
946
885
640
827
850
101
698
622
655
965
641
651
299
818
413
940
946

NUMBER OF STROKES.

& {5

® 860
Jae 979
#5983
Hic 986
| 900
e 901
Hre 910
fEc 932
#e 934
fe 938
e 728
Bic 733
Be 741
e 45
fge 766
He 777
flte 786
e 798

e 8521
& 795

= (37

o854
%o 364
o 867

#e {3

e 45
Be 418

‘mo 424

Fe 430
Re 432
e 441
Fie 443

 

Be 444

e 848,

 

960 | Fe 469

ke
W ¢
fEe
fEc

483
486
492
507

& (G

Re
x
e
e
Fold
5
fie
%
e

e

o

e o

iR R R A BN e HUTE b

&

°

=

He
#e
ke
“

He
FEc
e
Fe

. {305

513
522
530
532
535
517
727
309
318
347
251
253
267
271
273
277
261
286
288
293

502
163
167
169
185
186
188
193

 

194

fge
e
&e
fRe
jiifi e
e
e
Be
e
e
Fe
fke
He
e
Fe
Bhe
me |
e
e
=
Be
e
HFe
Re

He
fe
e
Bre
Hke

5]
B

{99

195
213
221
645
223
227
233
237
337

12
16
17

23
39
757
45
989
365
75

77
514

83
89
217
94

34
102

165
106

108
854
112
119
120
126

135
e 1500
w137
Bre 156

10 Strokes

F 460
ke 8
e 9
Ee 10
He 28
ke 40

41
B {ao
Ke 47

s

Ble 65
69

91
3 {503
e 97
e o (142
fie {Tog
£c 103
Bge 125
Pe 124
fe 129

181
2 {os
Mo 143
e 145
£ 148
e 152
e 154
e 160
e 165

 

Re 168
Page-371
By e
g e
RKe
THe
e
fii e

e fiag

Hie
e
e
e
£
gre
fEe
HFe
gte

He
Fe
fge

e
e
fige
e
e
e
e
e
i
Re
e
B
sfic
fe
e
e

139
192
218
219
238
248

269
270
275
282
284
289
290
292
305
307
314
321
332
335
352
356
357
399
404
416 |
417
436

437

445
457
197/
499 |
501
515

 

516

4% 516
e 518
He 519
fe 521
He 529
& 53
o 544
fge 708
Fic 718
e 725
e 731
Bie 733
e 158
e 162
fke 764
B e 767
#0772
fike 773
fLe 775

& 788
{fife 790

HHo 796
e 799
Fhe 802
jize 802

& 813
e 821

|Bn 826

7
% 81
o 835
e 877
e 880
e 887
e 807
§Ee 911

INDEX BY NUMBER OF STROKES.

FHe
e
e
Ee
&
P e
e
ik e
fe
B
%
G
=
#e
e
4 e
He
Ee
Be
fEe
e
fHec
Kte
He
e
ke
Bre
e
fike
FE
=Kl
Hte
fifie
B
g

 

| e
| i o

920
942
945
959

972 |

982
990
991
994
609
813
948
648
601
589
625
384
312
724
699
579
895
568
629
953
991
620
565
633
692
583
342
453
680
396
593
663

e
e
fe
%

e
BKRe
Fe
e

Jiie
iz
He
BRe
Be

#he
ke
Re

 

{dO

{

688
513
666
858
623
807
653
639

11 Strokes

fiee {149

24

816
38
55
70
1
8
86
87
95

107

122

126

128

130

135

137

139

140

140

141
956

150
158

 

Ble
e
Me
e
#te
Hle
#e
e
e
fge

e

e {470

e

175
179
178
183
185
200
201
229
236
244
255
262

267

#e {5os

*

fae
w {
i

e
Hhe
We
[

e
e
e
fide
i e
Fhe
e
e
fie
e
e
we
#

283
284
287
586
294
295
297
298
306
311
315
339
353
363
371
400
402
405
409
408
410
412

 

He
He
e
e
e

Bie
e

e
e
% e
i

e
e
e
e
e
#
¢
Hée
e
Fe
e
i

Be
e
e

e
e
e
Be

Ke |

414
418
120
425
438
470
196
506
520
523
527
531
534
541
512
546
549
550
710
747
762
763
769
770
779
803
804
805
808
814
817
847
850
851

205
863

Pre
e
ke
e
e
e
Je
Pe
e

He
fRe

*®

e
e
e
%

#Ee
e
e
fEe
e
#ke
/e
e
e
ZEe
fFe
e

Be
e
|fe
e
e

 

361

854
864
872
892
899
907
909
918
926
936
933
939
968
978
988
398
924
654
645
594
627
667
642
605
992
647
659
953
844
575
244
558
653
574
631
651
5
561
Page-372
362

e
TFe

12 Strokes ‘

4re
Bye
Hec
i
£
e
e
iEe
fie
jaic
fig e
e
Be
ite
3
He
e
e
e
e
e
e

#He
Mke
e
fre
e
B e
xR

660

697
i
|

|

7

{ 30
377
33
39
41
48|
58
58
951
54
56
75
7
83
98
99
99
101
116
119
134
161
199

&%

211
214
230

230
149

232

 

240

fae
Ao
e

e
Fe
He
Fre
He
He
k)

e
F*e
%

c
e
#He
e
HKe
I ¢
e

He
fRe
Hie

¥

e
Fe
Fe
k&

Fe
e
e

1O 1D 1D 1D 1D 1O
B ® = -1 o S
S E DD

584
288
313
522
326
329
333
334
314
361
362
373
376
378
401
131
460
465
477
484
490
1493
493
495
508
513
073
525
537
538
540

 

INDEX BY NUMBE: OF STROKES,

e 515 g

e 711
e 720
e 407
e 736
e T43

598

#7350
fLe 755

BLe 760|

fEe 783
e 795
e 804
Pre 818
e 837
B 84l
Pre 845
o 838
% 872
Hie 874
#c 883
e 889
%o 883
#e g
fEe 900
B9
e 466
dhe 924
Wo 927
ke 935
Hee 061
- 6
o {36
Bie 967
we 968
e 981

 

 

iR

{956‘

141

the 464

fhe
e
e
Ite
e
g e
be
it o
3
He
e
e

e

it
e
&
fiie
fije
e
e
e
J e
#ie
fise
e
e
e
fEe

615
619
333
518
374
602
599
590
144
385

411/

649

121
{630

704
683
931
695
787
513
252
685

610

893
381
449
177
387
912

13 Strokes

e
&
1%

383
797
978

 

 

e 693
JEc 686
ke 662
#He 678
e 894
Hhe 684
e 262
Yge 634
JiEe 668 !
e 172
fice 884
Pe 454
e 202
fke 595
fEe 703
K& 553
ZE 788
636
22
42
He 44
FHe T3
e 60
e 61
e 82
83
e {1
e 114
133
e 159
e 164
fee 171
e 215
e 242
e 258
Fe 273
e 279
e 306

Sge
e
Fre
e
7 c
e
e
fisc
e
e
e

e
ke
#ie
wHe
e
e
e
He
e
e
fig e
e
He
e
e
e
JEe
e
5
e
&
e

 

e

331
343
316
335
369 |
374
407
414
416
423
430
135
462
448
453
471
472
1478
487
498
502
516
592
526
598
536
541
547
707
715
721
730
749
751
754
765 |
956

Fe 781
Fre 782
He 801
fEe 816
¢ 823
JEe 829
#e 830
e 885
e 836
Mo 838
Fic 842
Bre 856
B 860
#tc 876
o 878
e 908
We 915
fle 931
$ie 937
940
fic 952
% 958
g 965
Fe 972
Ee 988
Fee 093
ke 997
3t ¢ 1001
% © 1002

& 308

14 Strokes

e 616

%e 664
FEc 580
e 702

 

e 249
Page-373
W
He
2

He
He
Be
Fhic
e
ke
Hie
e
e

#

fc
Fe
e

& {

5

#e |

Be
e
Rke

B
e
HRe

983
585
809
683
452
606
604
657
684
392
572
705
274
512
681
875 |
144 |

24
28
37
52
69
72
130
136

141
792

185
197

869 |7

198
220
882
232
235
240
245

 

He
"
Ee

e
Be
ific

He
e

fEe

Hre
Ee
Re
fEe
B
Hic
e
e

INDEX BY NUMBIR OF SIROKES.

247 (i e
251 | % o
261 o
262 | ¢
265 |3 ¢
303 |3 ¢
319 | M
334 |H e
335 M e
56 B
361 TEC
a7 ke
01 B
429 ??:
a3 B

a7 B

461

 

70 16 Strokes | [~
470 52

476 e
479 e
481 3
523 fge
537 3@ °
541 e
544 B o
719 g8 e
734 | BE
742 | e
746 |t e
747 | B o
748 | B o
812 |f&e
819 | B e
837 ¢
841 g e
844 |Be
849 | e

863 e 597

485
s50| ¥ {o0

933| %
943 | ¢
969 | Fe
976 | B e
596 | #he
868 | &ff ¢

e

e

618 e
455 B e
615 g5 ¢
679 | o
988 | g ¢
e48|gc
563l¥e
759 |

591 % °
600 | 385 ¢
620 |¥ e
925 [ ¢
588 |ffc
782 %%
701 | e
464 %5 ¢
575 |Eie
382 | ghe
660 | #5 ¢

{99

{328

917
941
21
41
63

442
104
105
106
120
139
151
163
238

e 276
283 |

294
301
309
811
312
326

459
342
362
365
403
440
449
456
493
517
525

 

e
JE
e
fite
e
el
e
e
KEc
&

e
e
e
Ee
e
it e
B ¢
Hee
e

16 Strokes

Be
e
e
B
e
i
fif e
T e
Ee
e
£
e
&
e

B

716
738
152
758
76
778
789
803
807
867
939
946
957
985
989 |
455
638
977
840
688

454
958
594
626
390
396
556
586
538
694
141

13

22
71
77

 

Bhe 178
ghc 222
e 243
gEe 259
$pe 274
B 320
B 412
EEe 422
e 458
Hic 462
fEe 482
M 714
Bec 752
e 754
Wic 7712

Pee 788

#ge 797
e 800
FEe 809
e 810
#he 823
e 831
Be 833
#e 88l
e 913
e 911

e 937

BEe 937
FHe 940
Bc 948
e 965
e 970
fife 978

17 Strokes

e T1

 

e
e
e
e
e
ke
e
Bie
e
B
flic
Wae
3
BEe
JiE e
Hie
fific
e
e
e
e
e
ke
WC
fhe
e
i
Fe
& c

368

141
148
164
174
232
286
287
300
416
505
771
824
839
856
890
903
905
919
929
949
+55
305
639
869
813
692 .
609
893
553

18 Strokes

e
ke
He
&

ffe

Be 133G

39
48
95

104

162

163
Page-374
364

e
He
e
#
g
M
Be
"
Shie
e
i¥e
fEc
e
He
fEc

232 | 5
704 | g o
240 g o
328 m o
344 | 2 o
452 ﬁc
454

799 | #
826 4
828

o | S
837 o
810

868
891
914 g5 ¢
925 |1t o

’
INDEX BY NUMBER Ol STROKES.

936 | g ©
928 | g ¢
937 | ##
996 | 1 ¢
395 |ffec
696 | A
(108 | %
726 | Bk ©
643 | ©
680 | ©
689 |%5°

e

e

e
396 | 4F ¢
839 | i ¢

19 Strokes

668 | i
632 | e
706 | ¢
575 | e
398 | Hee

-653 | g

889 | Bk e
903 | 3l
921 | it e
941 | fi§
953 | fi
954

392 | fe
433 [ ) o
435 | @ o
439 |y

T 456 | g o

514 g5 e
716 | @ o

750 | % e
753

351 |5
FEe

39 | 20 Strokes e

172 | g e
264 | fht ¢
285 | fhc

177 | o
286 | i ¢
307 | ¢

308 ! e 922 | 24 Strokes

428 390
471 298 e 52
485\22 trokes g2 o 446
512[5“ 00 [MEe 479
537 B ©
7ag B °
7e7 BEe 511 [ge 20a
(K T35 mmc 541
|

99 L
977 | 26 Strokes

775 | 21 Strokes | HEC 726 g0 636

o1s BEC 792
793 | 27 Strokes
706 | 28 StT0keS 4oy o a0
749 e 292
826 | fic 299
849 |Bge 799
